Hey everyone, Jesse here from American
Alchemy and
and Chris Ramsey from Canadian Alchemy.
We want to give a big thanks to Surf
Shark for sponsoring this episode.
That's right. I'll tell you more about
how Surf Shark can keep you safe online.
So stay tuned.
Chris, they want to hear from me, man,
not you.
Oh, right. If you were able to use the
type of technology that they are using,
you'd be able to bounce around and see
an infinite number of exoplanets,
grabbing a plant from here, changing it
up a bit, dropping it over here, and
doing the same with human life. You
could just like create like a little
black hole around your craft, and you
could go through the whole evolution of
our entire known universe [music] in an
afternoon. It's like hitting the X
button when you're playing a video game
to like skip past all the cut scenes.
It's kind of what they're doing. And so
this all feels like [music] this zoo,
but not in a way that's like a zoo, but
like in a way that's like the
preservation of like the seed of life
throughout the universe.
The vector along which you are making
progress is like what do they want?
What's the culture on the other side of
the [music] non-human intelligence? How
do they think of us?
They just don't care about us. It seems
like an AI
Mhm.
security system. They're kind of here
until something else gets here. Some of
us may by chance through accident get to
meet the [music] lowest form of their
kind of this robotic whatever and we're
like
oh my it's God.
I'm here with at this point my very good
friend Chris Ramsay who
just is one of the most amazing humans I
know generally. I think you know your
former career speaks for itself. you're
a world-class magician and I think you
you brought your unique approach to that
in that you uh debunk at times or show
uh how magic is done to to the average
person but then I think there's also
something kind of very magical about you
and you uh you allow for you know the
illusion to persist at times and uh and
now you've started probably my favorite
new uh UFO related channel. It has such
an interesting angle because I think you
are exploring themes around actually
connecting with non-human intelligence
or exploring what they think and how
they think about the world which is uh
you know no pun intended alien I think
for a lot of people in this topic who
are just used to kind of nuts and bolts
crafts or stories around sightings um
and so it's so it's so refreshing and
the the world and universe that you
build in each show uh is just next level
the thoughtfulness that you put into the
set and the script and the questions uh
is is second to none. So, appreciate you
being here, man.
Thank you. Thank you so much for saying
those kind words. I really appreciate it
and it means a lot coming from you, you
know, being someone in the space. I
think you're, you know, obviously the
ambassador to this topic on the the
platform and so means a lot coming from
you. Thank you so much.
Well, I'm I don't know. I don't think of
myself as an ambassador, but [laughter]
that's and I think that's what makes you
a good ambassador.
Okay. [gasps] So, I I I want to talk
about your transition from magic to UFOs
because I I think magic gives you such
an interesting lens. We were talking
last night, you you were talking about
kind of uh techniques and hypnotism.
Yeah.
That you're aware of and um I'm sure
that gives you an overlay or a lens
through which you view the UFO thing
where there's a lot of misdirection.
There's a lot of, you know, weird
ulterior motives and narratives and
stuff. Do you think you have a better
eye for those because of your magic
background? You know, on American
Alchemy, we're all about exploring big
ideas and breakthroughs.
So, it's fitting that we partner with a
company that takes privacy and freedom
just as seriously. Thanks to Surf Shark
for sponsoring his video, this video.
One of the coolest Surf Shark features
is the ability to virtually travel. With
servers in over a hundred countries, you
can switch your IP location and unlock
extra content libraries or content
that's normally georestricted.
If you're abroad, you can bounce back to
your home country's IP, so you never
miss your favorite shows, no matter
where you are.
Additionally, public Wi-Fi hotspots like
coffee shops or airports are data gold
mines for hackers. Are you aware of
that?
I am. Now,
Surf Shark protects your personal info
by encrypting all of your internet
traffic. So, whether you're downloading
research articles from the show or just
catching up on emails on the go, your
data stays private.
You know what? Here's the best part. Use
the link, Jesse's link, his link in the
description below and go to
surfshark.com/ameanalchemy
for four extra months for free. How does
that sound?
Four extra months. Golly,
pretty big deal. Surf Shark also has a
30-day money back guarantee, so there's
zero risk in trying it out. No risk at
all.
None
whatsoever.
One account works on an unlimited number
of devices, too, which is great for all
your gadgets.
Try it today at
surfshark.com/ameanalche.
I think I definitely have a better
awareness of them. Doesn't make me
immune to them. Um, but the awareness
does provide me with a little bit more
of a heads up when you know when
something's happening. I think it's a
six sense. Um, naturally as a magician,
you're kind of the interesting thing is
that a lot of people like like yourself
who are really interested in how things
work and methodology. That's what draws
a lot of people to becoming a magician
because we're interested in methods and
how things work and sort of reverse
engineering uh a moment and how do we
create this moment? How is that created?
Like if you show a magic trick to
someone, there's a few different
reactions that someone will have uh and
depending on their background history,
you know, if you obviously do a magic
trick to someone uh you know, abroad or
in a third world country, it might be a
different reaction than if I showed
someone, you know, in uh in Vegas a
magic trick, right? So, we all have our
own sort of realities that we deal with
when we see magic. But some people will
get frustrated because all they care
about is how it works, right? they're
just it doesn't sit well with them. And
although I loved the fiction of it all,
part of me was just like, wait a second,
I need to know how this works. And so I
I see a lot of that in you. I see a lot
of that in people who do like this
investigative uh journalism in that
they're just not satisfied until they
understand how it works. And so that's
that's just a big part of magic is um
when you start observing relationships
or moments or even technology, you're
constantly in your brain immediately
going to okay, well how does that
function? How does that, you know, play?
Because some people will just be
enamored by the actual
moment. Other people will be like
enamored on the outside, but on the
inside the cogs are just spinning and
worrying and they're like, "Well, hold
on. How does this actually,
you know, how's this possible?" And then
as a magician, you're able to accumulate
just a wealth of knowledge through all
these books that are available to, you
know, magicians that are uh that include
psychology, misdirection, showmanship,
slight of hand, all these different
elements, hypnosis,
[clears throat] and then so you just
keep adding to your tool belt all of
these um all these method building
practices. And so when you're observing
things in the natural world that might
not have anything to do with magic,
you're automatically relating it back to
some psychology or something else. And
so naturally with UFO stuff, I I think
it's just a big puzzle. It's like a big
magic trick. Y
and I'm like, well, what's the
mechanism?
It's almost the ultimate puzzle. I know
very few people who spend a lot of time
in it who I think I think there are
local threads where it's like this thing
might work like this and this pattern
matches to this other thing I learned
over here and they're uncorrelated
sources so that you know there's
probably something to like you know this
particular you know this the sulfur
coming off of you know like uh you know
extraterrestrial bodies or whatever you
know things like that um and you sort of
build this like this model but I I know
very few people who spend a significant
amount of time in the topic who have a
very internally consistent and
comprehensive worldview as to how it
works. And so in that sense, I think
it's the ultimate puzzle.
Yeah.
Um
yeah, it's definitely it it definitely
feels that way. And um the finding
connections, I think it's just another
natural ability that our brains have.
And then the deeper you go into being
interested in methodology,
the more you're inclined to make those
connections. And someone like you, you
make so many connections cuz you've
accumulated this wealth of knowledge
from all these books and all these
experiences and interesting people
you've spoken with that now you and like
UAP Gerb, you you guys have this amazing
ability to find these connections that
otherwise I'd be oblivious to. You know
what I mean? So it's, you know, for me,
you guys, your mind works a behaves a
lot like a magician's mind would. Um,
but instead of learning about slight of
hand, psychology and misdirection and
all that, you guys have learned about,
you know, the phenomenon. And so that's
that's why I'm just so enamored by what
you guys are doing because I I see
myself, you know, in that same realm
just with a different topic.
Absolutely. Well, when did you start? So
the new channel is Area 52. Everybody go
subscribe right now. the way that it got
started. I was posting on YouTube, I've,
you know, had a YouTube channel that
dealt with magic and puzzles for a
decade and that was going, you know,
fairly well. And a friend of mine who is
a memory champion, Nelson Delos, very
interesting guy. Shout out to Nelson.
He's six time US memory champ, you know,
very leftrained. Uh, went to university
for physics. Uh, teaches like computer
stuff at university. He's he's a really
genuinely smart, bright, and curious
person.
And I caught wind of him from like this
Netflix doc and I was like or like he
remembers things. I was like I could use
that for magic somehow, right? I want to
learn how to do a mind palace. I mean
that would really help me out perhaps
with a certain trick. And Harry
Lorraine, who's this like old magician,
was also like a master at memory work.
And so I was like, "Oh, I need to you
befriend this guy and like learn from
him." And so I did that and he taught
me, you know, how to memorize a deck of
cards in five minutes from a shuffled
stack or um all these different things.
And I started exchanging, you know, how
I could pretend to memorize a deck and
make it look the exact same. And he was
really like fascinated by that. So we'd
start catching out, you know, um people
who were cheating at memory stuff and
got very interesting. And one day he
just slips this by and he's like, "Yeah,
I did this." He's like, "Do you know
what remote viewing is?" And I go,
"Yeah, I think I've heard of it. I
think, you know, I watched this
documentary back in the day with like
Soviet psychic spies or something. And
he goes, "Yeah, so
I was on this Facebook group, A Memory,
and this sort of hedge fund reached out
to me."
Whoa.
To see if I if I'd be willing to be
trained in remote viewing in order to
remote view the stock market for them.
[laughter]
No way.
Yeah. And so he tells me this, I'm I'm
like, "What? This sounds like a fan. It
sounds like a fiction." But, uh, the
head hunter who was hired by the hedge
fund to train potential new remote
viewers,
uh, I ended up meeting, um, so one of
them, his name is Brett Stewart. He's,
uh, he also remote views for a living
and like I guess makes enough money to
earn a living, you know? So for me, I'm
like, that's a really interesting and
important thing to say, like, you know,
if remote viewing is real or not,
like, well, if this guy's
really
making a living off of remote, that's
kind of wild.
Yeah.
So, it really shifted my perception
immediately. But also, red flags started
popping up because as a magician, I also
know, you know, there's there's so many
different factors that factor into this
is uh, you know, obviously confirmation
bias and all these other factors, but I
had no idea of anything Stargate, Sri or
any of that.
And so I asked him if he could teach me
because they trained him an hour a day
for a month.
Yeah.
Before he started doing ARV, associative
remote viewing. So basically, you're not
actually remote viewing uh the the up or
down of the market. You're remote
viewing something,
a target unknown to you. And there are
two targets actually. And whatever your
session is closest to, that image is has
a relationship like up or down that you
don't know about. so that you're not
actually removing the stock market and
you're never told whether you're right
or wrong. So there's no like positive
feedback loop or whatever that is. So
anyways, he teaches me this, we start
documenting it because I'm like this
could be cool for the channel, you know,
it's something I've always been
interested in in this sort of space and
um we start getting really crazy
results, like good results. Like it
starts you're like whoa, this is there
might be something here
and over and over and over again it's
just not to be ignored. There's just
something. It's like the even the
general gestalt of a lot of these
uh viewings were correct, you know,
where it's like, oh, it's a building
and then I describe and yeah, sure
enough, it's a building or it's a, you
know, uh a life form or whatever that
is. And so
start to document this, go through the
whole process, and by the end of it, I
had created this like whole documentary,
and I was like, I can't put this on my
magic channel.
This is too wild.
Yeah. and I decided to start a new
channel,
The Area 52, and then that just led me
down a rabbit hole. So, long long story,
that's how I got into
That's amazing. Well, I'm I'm so
grateful you had that experience and it
bridged you into this this new world. I
I find that interesting because that's
my own experience too which is I uh
became interested in quote unquote
parasychology before UFOs as well
because I think once you start to think
that physics you know and physics is a
poor compression of what we're talking
about reality is different than what it
seems uh then it allows for all sorts of
like different consensus realities and
and timelines and you know ones possibly
involving you know extraterrestrials or
craft or you know non-human intelligence
Uh so yeah, it's a it's that's a really
interesting bridge and it's one that I I
I had as well.
Um okay, so you start the channel uh in
2023. What is the biggest thing you feel
like you've updated on
in the world of UFOs since starting?
Well,
I would say like like I always Okay, so
I I'd entered the space with a with a
bit of a bias. I I kind of had I kind of
had a centered sort of balanced
perspective, but I did want to believe
that these things were true and I knew
that about myself. So coming coming into
this um I knew that I had to try my best
to put that confirmation bias aside and
also give it a a skeptic's sort of eye
cuz otherwise I'd just be, you know,
misled and I didn't want that to happen.
I also didn't want to become the Amazing
Randy, you know, where famously if
people think of magic and they think of
UFOs, they think of Amazing Randy. Um,
he had this show where at first he would
give you 10 grand if you proved
something paranormal would exist. And by
the end of it was a million dollars. It
was a million dollars if you could prove
anything sort of paranormal or
parasychological or whatever existed,
ESP, all these things. And which nobody
ever really collected the million
dollars. But I always found it unfair
watching those shows because even the
energy that I'm not and I'm not saying
that anyone that did his show
had any ability. I just thought they got
off on the wrong foot regardless. I
don't think you should approach
something with such,
you know, intense skepticism. I do think
that now it might actually hinder the
result somehow. You know, I think that's
a possibility and I just don't want to I
I kind of want to leave this space open.
So, coming into this space, I wanted to
have this balanced perspective,
never commit to one thing or the other,
have my own sort of internal, you know,
um, beliefs, but also be able to set
those aside. And I think once I started
doing that, I started unraveling in my
own sort of view of reality what what
seems to be this link between
consciousness and UFOs and remote
viewing. And I started, you know,
putting it together sort of myself with
all these cases, everything else. And
like for me, I think that's just the
most important thing to focus on in the
space is this connection. And I'm not
talking about psionics specifically, but
like also the the government's interest
in
consciousness.
Yeah.
Is huge.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
It is hu they are hugely interested in
it.
That is apparent. Of course,
you know, if you look at what they did
with Stargate, that's 20 years, $20
million.
That's a lot of resources. It's a lot of
time. And you got to think 20 years.
Every year they had to go in front of a
committee
to make sure the budget was approved for
the next year. That's right.
And so Joe McMonogle would do that. He'd
go into a skiff and do some remote
viewing and they'd come away feeling
like well yeah I guess we got to keep
going.
Yep.
Right. So I mean and and that's a lot of
pressure when you think about that cuz
like what if you got that session wrong
especially for something that would be
get such you know kind of bizarro
optical scrutiny. You think that would
be the first thing to cut. Of course,
the flip of that is like I'm a skeptic
on the outside and I'm saying, well, you
know, B2 bomber is like, you know, two
billion plus or whatever. So, like, why
are you only spending $20 million on the
most important, you know, question?
Yeah. That's the beauty of it because
all you need is a pen and paper.
Yeah. Right.
Because there's no real why do you even
need 20 million?
What do you need? Totally.
It's uh, you know, it's the cheapest
form of Intel.
Yeah. Um, and what was interesting in 90
I think 96 was like this dine thing
where they came out and said like, "Oh,
it's uh it's not re like it's real, but
like we had this program, but honestly
it never really gave us anything and the
results were whatever." And he says
something kind of like he lied by
omission a little bit where he goes uh
something to the effect of
um we don't we've we never used remote
viewing as a
credible single source of intel or
whatever. It was something to that
effect. But the idea was that you
wouldn't use any
any mode of intel as a single source.
You would always have to it would always
corroborate something else. Correct.
It's always an overlay on top of like
other sources and methods.
Exactly. And that and that's I think the
value in remote viewing for the
government. They're not going to use
remote viewing to, you know, find a
hostage purely on remote viewing.
They're going to give you coordinates of
where they think the hostage is and then
they're going to remote view possibly
how many guards there are in that
building guarding the hostages, you
know. So it it it'll never be like,
"Hey, you know, where's the holy grail?"
and then they go dig up in the desert
where the Holy Grail is, they'll always
have some other piece of intel, whether
it's satellite footage or witness or
whatever it is.
Yeah.
Before the remote viewing comes in.
And so, you know, it's I I think for how
little you're spending, you would be you
would be absolutely stupid not to use
it. I've heard many remote viewers talk
about it like you're viewing a bunch of
uh possible alternative timelines like
almost like uh the wave function in
physics or whatever and uh you know it's
it's yeah there's some probability that
you're going to end up on the one that
you have remote viewed or predicted but
you have to take it sort of loosely. And
then there's obviously the analytical
overlay where you get a download but you
shouldn't necessarily be the one
interpreting your download. you know,
somebody should be kind of
intellectually scrutinizing it. And you
know, it seems like there are all these
methods uh or failure modes rather for
it. But there's a woman named Jessica Us
who uh ran the American Statistical
Society. And she looked at all of the
data, you know, for Stargate, you know,
the Psychic Sky program that ran that
you're talking about from the 70s to the
'90s. and uh she looked at the whole
thing and along with Ray Heyman who is
actually a James Randy uh colleague
interesting and and fellow skeptic at
the University of Oregon and uh Uts came
out saying if uh basically she used P
value which I'm sure you're familiar
with you know
highly elevated
beyond she was like if if uh we were to
apply this scrutiny to any other field
of science it would be beyond you know
uh the p values would be way you know uh
uh less than expected as far as you know
the probability that you you you'd get
hits this many times.
Um so yeah, it's fascinating. We we sort
of look at that and
the goalpost shifts
the goalpost shifts and you just say
well no you're wrong.
We have to do another one.
You have to do another one. And the the
other interesting thing that you kind of
touched on is like you talked about
James Randy in the world in which
parasychology is true and there is some
sort of mind matter interaction. And we
don't live in this perfectly cartisian
dualist, you know, separation of mind
matter thing. Inherently, a skeptic
coming to the experiment is going to
affect the results.
And that's why it's it has to be this
almost epistemological paradigm shift,
not a scientific paradigm shift, because
that involves a priorized skepticism.
Yeah.
And so you you're going to affect and
and it's crazy. And then you end up in
this thing where it's like you can't
affect the results as an experimentter.
I'm like, but actually you can. But if
there is an effect, of course you can.
Yeah.
So it's this sort of like endless kind
of kind of loop. There's a there's um
you know that Princeton had its own
parasychology lab, the pair lab. Y
and they had this global consciousness
project or whatever where random event
generators were tested. So these sort of
binary computers tied to something
random in quantum mechanics and they
would go off at certain moment. So like
911 was the biggest spike they've ever
seen.
Exactly. But they would also go off when
Bob John, formerly dean of the
engineering school, um when he died.
And so [clears throat] it was clear in
that case it was the opposite
experimental effect where in their mind
Bob John dying was as important as 9/11
or like you know some somewhat as
important. And um
so it it just goes to show I think
you end up with all this muddiness.
Yeah.
And it actually you you know you you you
have to kind of change your paradigm
wholesale.
Yeah. Yeah, even studying it becomes
very difficult in that case, you know,
and that's like even even if you again
taking like you know the James Randy
sort of because a lot of people are like
well if those like telepathy tape kids
if those kids are psychic why don't they
just collect a million dollars from
James Randy like well you have to
understand that those tests aren't in a
vacuum either. Yeah.
Like those aren't
those don't live up to any scientific
standards.
No,
they're they're it's a game show.
Yeah.
You know what I mean? There's there's so
much personal bias involved that like
that would never be accepted as a fair
result.
Absolutely.
Either way.
Absolutely. And if you were to tell like
I say, you know, an electron exists like
nobody would like, you know, argue. Then
I say, have you detected an electron?
And nobody would have detected an
electron. And then you say like, oh,
your mind can somehow, you know, in a
statistically significant way. Uh we
don't know how it works, but affect uh
you know, um what's supposed to be a
random output because it's tied to
something in quantum mechanics. it's
supposed to be random. Um, you'd say,
"No, no, that's impossible."
But it would, it's just your bias.
There's literally nothing about an
electron measurement that you are like
you should be higher conviction in than
this other thing.
Yeah.
Um, and so yeah, I don't know. I find
that I find that fascinating.
Yeah, it is fascinating. And even if you
look at uh Stargate, they had to so Dr.
Edwin May, who is the chief research
physicist, had to put together a
scientific oversight committee for
Stargate, right? made up of like I think
like a dozen of the best minds in
America like you had Dr. Daryl Bem was
part of that renowned parasychological
um researcher and you had Dr. Schwarz
who invented uh what the nutrino beam or
something he won a Nobel prize.
You had a doctor was it Zimardo who was
the guy who did the Stanford prison
experiment. So you had like this like
who's who of scientists but
the main thing that he said was like
there's there's this one rule you have
to come into this skeptic we have to so
they together created the kind of
protocol
in how to measure these p values in
these tests and they had six remote
viewers over sort of you know data he
has data of six remote viewers over 30
years you know that's a lot of data so
they have all of this data with these,
you know, with these people and they had
to like sort of map out how do we
effectively test them because it's so
there's so many variables to consider
when you're drawing, you know, a
building like, okay, if I have a
building and I just draw like the the
target is a building and I draw just
like a rectangle, what is that? How do
you quantify that? How do you put that
on a number scale? Well, does the
building have windows? Now, if you're
drawing windows and now the windows,
right? And so like maybe the ratio to a
person in the building for the height.
So there's all these little tiny factors
that they would have to factor in
because otherwise confirmation bias
could be like yeah rectangle rectangle.
It's a building. He got it 10 on 10,
right? So they really had to be
skeptical and be like look we have to
draw that line,
you know, in a way that that proves
beyond a shadow of a doubt.
And I think I think, you know, Dr. May
wrote uh together with, you know, other
collaborators over two million words on
on that, right? And you have all the
hits and the misses. It's not like he's
only showing you the good results. You
have the bad results, too. But if you
consider the P value and the amount of
times they got something right and the
high accuracy, it almost makes you think
they're cheating sometimes when you look
at the results, you're like, how? Yeah.
You know?
Yeah. No, I've been with Mc Monagle and
experienced it myself where it's like a
friend of mine drew like a little spiky
thing and it was a pineapple and it's
like and the pineapple was in this
manila envelope that McMongle had
brought and you're like
this feels like magic like it's insane
what what the hell is going on and this
wasn't even McM this is McMonogle
teaching us the method in like a
10minute period.
Yeah.
Uh so it's so fascinating. I think if
you were to audit anybody's kind of
day-to-day, you know, experience, they
would say they experience all sorts of
things like this. And then I think what
something um like that needs to turn
into mainstream science is you need to
be able to put math behind it and you
need to make it repeatable, like very
repeatable. Um and I think we don't
know how to do either, you I think the
repeatability is it's still like loose
enough where it's it's not like you know
every time I drop this pen it like it
you know drops to the ground like you're
not like gravity or whatever and it's
hard to put uh math to it.
It's hard to quantify that. Yeah,
it's hard to quantify it but it doesn't
make it less of a very real and
measurable anomaly that will likely
point to a future kind of scientific
paradigm because they always do.
Yeah. But they they are doing
interesting things to support
uh more accurate results. So they're
finding ways to enhance the results. M
and you know by doing tests over and
over and over and over with the same
people you're able to map out you know
what works and what doesn't and really
interesting findings one was you know
when they originally found these uh
remote viewers they had they had
basically reached out to 600 individuals
and tested them uh 1% of which turned
out to have a significant talent in
remote viewing uh but these people
ranged from all walks of life but like
mental level geniuses
uh you had you had Stanford alumni in
there. You had intelligence people. You
had civilians. And out of all these
people, out of 600 people, six people
were chosen to have significant talent.
Now, 6 out of 600 doesn't seem like
much. That's 1% of the population.
That's quite a bit when you think about
it.
And of a very elite pool to begin with.
Correct. Yeah. Well, elite, but it also
had like it had all sorts of people in
there at the end. It wasn't just, you
know,
uh like super geniuses or anything. It
it didn't matter.
It was these other factors. And one of
those factors was these people they
found out afterwards all had sesthesia.
That's amazing. So these are the
original people for Stargate.
Wow.
Yes.
They all had sesthesia. To for the
audience sesthesia is the
kind of entanglement or coupling of
senses. So like every time you
hear a particular note you you know you
see a color or something. Kanye West I
think or Fel have like
you could smell you could smell a sound
or like it's the it's the mixing of
senses how your brain interprets two
different senses.
Mhm.
Those people apparently have pretty um
have the had the best results.
Well, there's a woman named Dr. Ia
Whitley. She's a space psychologist and
she works on with astronauts and fighter
pilots for their like sort of space
readiness or like high performance
environments. But uh on the side and
maybe this is not on the side, maybe
this is related to her core work. Uh she
so babies apparently are all born with
senesthesia. Oh, right.
And 6 months in uh they lose sesthesia.
And so she is working on modalities to
help uh uh babies and children retain
their their senesthesia for longer
because I'm sure you lose all sorts of
perceptive awareness in the process. all
of what you're talking about right now
where if there's a correlation between
that and remote viewing, maybe you come
out of the womb with more of these
latent abilities.
Mhm. Yeah. And you're, you know, also
closer to the source kind of, right?
You're coming right out of that.
And I mean, that is that is really
interesting, especially when you tie it
back to these non-verbal autistic
children where a lot of them also
are cynices.
Yes. You know, so there is um it is
interesting to think that hey, if
there's a way to induce sesthesia or to
preserve it or to train it.
Yeah.
Or to just nurture it naturally even um
that that might lead to better results
in these in the sigh sort of sphere.
Yes.
Um one another really interesting part
is entropy is a big factor in these
results as well. the more entropy
something has, the more accurate the um
the session is.
That's fascinating because there's even
a term called centropy in biology, which
is uh biological systems, their
attraction to order and to non-entropic
system. One of the greatest
neuroscientists of our time is a guy
named Carl Fristen. He has the free
energy principle and neurons are
literally attracted to uh lower entropy
systems. you know, not not you can
randomize signals and and make neurons,
you know, train them to do things
through Pavlovian conditioning because
that's seen as punishment uh for them.
So that is that's just fascinating that
um uh that we're sort of attracted to to
to order and then and then maybe you're
more likely to view something that is
disordered.
Yeah. And the reason for that might be
also that our brains are kind of
hardwired to detect change, right? M.
And so if you look at the Gansfeld
experiments, for example, you're you're
basically numbing your senses, you're
kind of in a sensory deprivation thing
due to having like a red light in your
face for 10 or 15 minutes. Eventually,
because it hasn't changed at all, your
brain perceives it as black. You just
won't see it anymore. And then that
white noise you're listening to after
about 10 or 15 minutes ceases to be
heard as well because your brain's kind
of it's kind of like if you walk into a
room and you can smell something like in
your house you're like what is that
smell and a half an hour later it's
gone. You don't smell it anymore. You
get used to it. Your brain tends to not
detect it if there's no entropy. there's
no change.
And so on perhaps a quantum field level,
we're also hardwired to detect change,
which makes it a lot easier to remote
view places that have nuclear energy or
bombs or, you know, anything regarding
uh someone's life cuz that apparently
has a big entropic uh sort of
correlation as well that the loss of
life or the endangerment of life
actually allows the remote viewers to
have a more accurate viewing, which is
why like hostage situations or like
finding missing children, those those
things are all really really um easier
to remote view. Uh they used to douse um
target sites with um liquid nitrogen and
they would get more accurate results
when they did that.
Wow.
Yeah,
that's fascinating because it creates
local entropy.
Correct. Well, it makes so I've always
thought there was an interesting angle
there with the nuclear stuff because
often with nuclear spills, there's this
woman named Jensen Andre, Harvard PhD,
who documents a lot of these nuclear
disasters and how UFOs show up
consistently around the nuclear dis. So,
I mean, there aren't that many at this
point, but like the the two kind of most
staple ones would probably be Fukushima
in in 2011 and then uh Chernobyl in the
'90s. And in both cases, people see the
UFOs come down and seemingly clean up
the radiation. And there's all this
interesting novel work uh in science
right now being done. There's a guy
named Michael Leven at TUS talks about
bio electricity and the bioelectric
field of the body and how basically the
the uh uh um electromagnetic field that
a biological system is growing up in
dictates its morphology in a more
fundamental way. M uh than you know the
what he calls the hardware which is just
the DNA and the proteins. And so you
have this software writing like this
coding going on from the environment
itself. And you have to think if a nuke
goes off
it totally messes with that. And
radiation accelerates evolution. Like if
you look at like in Chernobyl now you
have like mutated dogs and frogs and you
know um because it's just differential
selection plus mutation. So like the
more mutations you get, the more you
know, the more uh various selection.
Yeah.
Um and then and then on the flip side,
you know, you can kind of, you know,
stagnate. You put a frog embryo in a
Faraday cage and it doesn't grow
properly. So there's something about the
magneettosphere of the earth that is um
almost like this perfect petri dish for
life. Correct.
And if you're like this UFO like
monitoring the thing,
you freak out when like you see you see
this like high entropy spike.
Correct.
You go. And then I'm sure like same with
our remote viewing. Yeah. And I think
that's why we have them in a sense like
this isn't new.
We're kind of rediscovering this perhaps
intuitive sense, but perhaps to them
they're hardwired in a way to be way
more receptive to that. So they don't
have to hang around. Maybe maybe they
could be on the other side of the
universe and they get this entropic
spike and they just know that they got
to like boop, show up, take care of
business, right? Almost like a fail
safe. Yeah. And so maybe genetically
somehow we inherited that from from you
know whatever whatever theory of life
you want to you you want to put to that.
But I think that maybe that's just like
a fundamental part of also um survival.
Yeah.
You know so if you look at like cuz
obviously extraterrestrials this is like
we think of this as like the peak
evolution of you know of hu of humankind
perhaps or of living entity. uh you you
become really attached to this quantum
field and therefore you can have all
these amazing abilities like telepathy
and remote viewing and perhaps you know
uh billocation and all these amazing
things, right? But on a lower scale uh
which would be like us or even our
ancestors
um we we kind of only have that when
necessary for survival. It's like the
very bottom of it. But it would probably
be used and Joe McBongle talks a lot
about that too. It would probably be
used to like know where to dig for water
or know where to set up camp or know
where not to go at night or you know
what uh what what food to eat. Like how
did the shaman know not to eat this
mushroom? Oh, the mushroom told me like
he had this like intuitive instinct.
They wouldn't just eat it and then die
and be like don't eat the mushrooms
here. Y
they would know. they would like tell
people no the plants are speaking to me
and that's kind of how they and so there
is this like sense of um I I I I do
think there is a very very fundamental
uh sigh ability in everybody when it
comes to survival and that's why we
experience things like this during high
stress environments because we're
triggering something that perhaps allows
us to in some precogn nitive way know
what's going to happen a second before
it does before we get hit in the face or
or shot or like so I think we still have
that innate ability but then there are
these mutations uh in in people's
physiology that allow them to have you
know uh access to you know the these
sesthesia properties that allow them to
have a little bit more and and and I
think it's really interesting and I
don't know if whether you know the the
autism thing that we're experiencing I
think you you touched on this too is
perhaps related to this like what is
this? Is this why are we seeing more of
these cases now? Is this just some type
of weird evolution or is this you know
is this bad? Is this good? It's just
interesting. Oh, it's so fascinating and
and I think our world now, you know, is
is kind of an anomaly compared to the
past where we have sanitization, we have
safety, but uh really, you know, we were
constantly under duress, stress, and you
know, there's sort of prey and safe or
sorry, predators and safety concerns
constantly in the past. And especially,
you know, evolution occurs along, you
know, a couple of different tracks. So
you have individual selection, sexual
selection, but you also have group
selection. And often in a group, you
have a person who is selected for who um
might not be selected for on an
individual level. And they're selected
for more if the group is under duress.
So geniuses are often asexual. They're
they're not super social, you know,
they're not they're maladaptive in all
these other ways. And if you talk to
Joseph Bing Monagle, you know, remote
viewer number one, he'll say that uh she
shamans in the past were often very
sickly and, you know, on an individual
level, not the most vital or likely to
kind of, you know, um uh move their
genes forward,
but uh really selected for by by the
group because they led the group into I
mean it's
they were fed, they were brought
medicine because they would also provide
that service to the rest of the group
which is like these precognitive things
or these readings. totally adaptive to
get these downloads that where if the
whole world is sort of a search space
like it's like what what is the
likelihood you're going to come up with
the the vine that's DMTri and the you
know MAO inhibitor or whatever that
needs to come from some different
epistemic pathway like trial and error
Malcolm Gladwell 10,000 hours it does
and if that exists at all it's going to
be selected for in those parad paradigms
or contexts when you're sort of in the
dark and you're like with a little clan
of people and I think that just exists
sort of less and the the other kind of
mental model to have around it is that
maybe we are ported into these low-level
senses all Plato like we are in a cave
and uh you know Plato would say don't
trust your senses there's a higher world
of kind of form you know ideas and and
and kind of plonic ideals up here. Yes.
um you know that that supersede the
world of forms and when you see these uh
kids these non-verbal autistic kids in
the telepathy tapes remote view they
need to be situated in their bodies
which if you think of like a VR headset
you need to like see your hands and then
you're like in it and you're like okay
I'm good I'm in the VR thing I'm ported
in and if you if you don't you're still
like in some other kind of liinal realm
and being in that liinal realm might
give you more access
to the primordial stuff to that
different epistemic circuit where you
get the downloads and that that feels
like them. They're disembodied in some
ways but they're connected to like more
primordial you know as well. What is up
alchemist? If you're interested in
joining group calls with me and
accessing exclusive never-beforeseen
episodes of American Alchemy, like my
walk and talk with Danny Shehan on who
exactly killed JFK, or a remote viewing
debate between Hal Putoff and Eric
Weinstein, then please join our [__]
community today. We've been sitting on a
ton of unreleased footage that we will
now be releasing on our new [__] I also
hosted a discussion between the infamous
Jack Sarfat and former American
Alchemist Science Bob Magcguire. Head
over to wap.com/jesse
Michaels. Michaels with no a to become a
member today. That's wap.com/j
sm i ls. Thank you so much and enjoy the
rest of today's episode.
Kind of like Yeah. These are like the
avatars that we sort of inhibit and they
they are they can function autonomously.
Y
they don't need like our bodies I don't
think need the consciousness to survive.
I think that you have a brain for that.
You have you know a heart for that and a
stomach for that. Um the consciousness
is kind of what what's driving
everything.
But I do think like on a survival basis
like we jump back to using the
physicalness to help us sort of you know
navigate this this planet. But yeah,
definitely that's, you know, why we get
these quote unquote downloads through
meditation, through astral projection,
through dreams. These are all states
that you don't need your body for. And
you know, your your body is I think your
brain, you know, uses time and uses all
these things to help it survive. But I I
think that we're getting to a point in
our evolution where survival isn't
like an imminent factor in our daily
lives. We live very not I'm not speaking
for everyone obviously but in the
western world there's you know we live
very comfortably and so because of that
now it seems like
perhaps these innate abilities that come
from you know a higher consciousness are
now seeming to to to present themselves
a little bit more perhaps because of
this comfort we're allowing ourselves to
leave our bodies now we don't have to
babysit the physical body anymore and
we're kind of oh, you know,
experimenting with these DMTs and these
everything else to try and you know, get
what's out there in a in a more
meaningful way and in a less um stress
induced environment. I think like cuz
you know, you hear these Jake Barbers
that say like, oh, you know, it's stress
inoculation and like you got to be under
high stress for this thing to happen.
And I'm like, I think yes, I think
that's probably a way of doing it. And
of course like you probably get some
results but I think it's really
important that we work perhaps towards a
way of achieving that through other
emotional states
because I think it might be you know it
might take a lot more work and a lot
more studying less u instant results
like than zapping someone and and
telling them what do you see you know um
is maybe meditating for a year you know
an hour every day for a year and seeing
what happens then
you or or trying, you know, I'm not
saying trying drugs, but like, you know,
experimenting safely with these other
alternative psychedelics to see if
there's something there. I think, you
know, I think definitely we should be
leaning a little bit more into that than
leaning into the fear side of it. That's
just uh intuitively what I think,
you know, it might help you survive, but
I don't think it really helps you
connect.
Yeah.
You know, in in a meaningful way.
Yeah. So if UFOs show up, you know, in
um high entropy systems where it's like
they have to restore the order around uh
kind of radiation or nuclear spills, I
feel like another pattern again in the
UFO world where it's so hard to find
actually patterns. It's so it's so
confusing is they seem to show up around
people in particular states of
consciousness. And we were at a party
the other night and some friends of mine
brought up this Hyperion uh sci-fi uh
trilogy or something. I was I might be
botching this but in it apparently
according to them
uh we're like you know flames that like
like little nodes that light up and like
like a moth to a flame they see when
people reach certain levels of
consciousness. Do you do you think that
the UFOs sort of exist in that in that
way where where um you know it's sort of
high entropy with you know trying to
clean up the nuclear spills but then
also they are attracted to people who
seem like they are lighting up
consciousness wise.
Yeah, I think that could be the case and
I don't want to generalize because I
also do think we might not be dealing
with one entity here. Y
and so there could be a a plethora of of
outcomes here and and reasons why we're
being visited or or you know we could
have been conditioned and man
manipulated genetically to do that. So
it's no surprise to them. They're not
coming from that far.
They're just kind of like oh finally
they're they're doing the thing. Um,
you know, I often think it's it's it's
interesting, but I often think that
like,
you know, we we place ourselves in kind
of the center of our own universe,
obviously, from our perspective. And we
do assume that there is life out there.
You know, you'd be you'd be an idiot not
to assume that there's intelligent life
in in this universe other than us, I
think. Um,
however, if you were able to use the
type of technology that they are using,
which is seemingly almost instantaneous
travel through time and space, like
these warping of gravity and and
manipulating of spaceime where they can
just appear and disappear, you'd be able
to bounce around and see an infinite
number of exoplanets, right? And if you
consider that we are where we're going
right now, our human trajectory is
showing us that we have people like Elon
Musk um who want to get past this
barrier and preserve life by spreading
our seed onto other planets in the solar
system and eventually out into the
galaxy. If that is our goal for
humanity,
you know, I'd like to picture I'd like
to fast forward that. And I' I'd think
it's pretty depressing that we end up
just constantly living underground
elsewhere
because even even all these exoplanets,
there's never going to be the perfect
gravity
or the perfect radiation levels or
carbon dioxide or there's always going
to be something that's going to kill
you, right? Because you're just you
didn't grow there. And so you'd
constantly be wearing suits or living in
a bubble and it just doesn't seem like a
really good way to preserve your
species. And so I I think that if you
were able to bounce around the universe
and find all these exoplanets, it would
be a lot easier and make way more sense
if we were to find the native life that
already inhabited these planets and
simply manipulate our genetic code into
theirs. So that way we could live there.
or maybe not me personally, but my
ancestors or something. And so we'd
start jumping around the universe
instantly to maybe a 100,000 exoplanets
all at the same time. And then grabbing
a plant from here, changing it up a bit,
dropping it over here, and doing the
same with human life or or whatever type
of life you find there and
experimenting. Perhaps on this planet,
we're going to, you know, insert a
little bit more of this um consciousness
attracting
um, you know, genetic system into a
lizard
and see how that turns out.
And then do that with apes and then do
that with birds or, you know, and and
try all these different things out. And
then every thousand years pop back and
introduce agriculture or irrigation
systems or metallurgy or religion and
language and just kind of like see how
these things are all seeding and how
they're all you know sort of growing
together. And then I I mean this is
going really deep and far, but I also
think that if you were able to
manipulate gravity in such a way, let's
say I didn't have a home planet and you
could just Yeah. you could just like
tune your craft to like a a higher
density or something and just create
like a essential little black hole
around your craft and fast forward a
thousand years.
Yeah. So essentially, you could go
through the whole evolution of our
entire known universe and the seeding of
it in an afternoon, you know, like it
wouldn't it wouldn't change anything. If
you don't have any loved ones at home
waiting for you
and you're just in a craft locally,
then time is of no consequence. Like
what happens on the outside of that
craft doesn't change what happens on the
inside. So, why wouldn't you just do
something fast forward, keep doing it,
fast forward, and literally like, you
know, it's like hitting the X button
when you're when you're playing a video
game to like, you know, skip past all
the uh all the cut scenes.
It's kind of what they're doing.
I think why wouldn't you do it that way?
Why would you wait?
Mhm.
Sounds so weird if you can manipulate
time.
Yeah. And so it just I just think that
like and then you hear these high
macheds and like the Galactic
Federation, they're here to stop our
nukes. We hear that all the time. We we
catch some of them picking up samples
and putting them on their ships through
these. And so this all feels like this
this zoo, but not in a way that's like a
zoo, but like in a way that's like the
preservation of like the seed of life
throughout the universe.
Yeah.
I I kind of I kind of feel like that's
what we're that's what's happening. Like
if you look at all the signs.
No, it's so far. I mean like Elon Musk
always says we have to preserve the tiny
candle flickering in the darkness of
human consciousness. But then you think
about I actually at one time I had the
very great honor of meeting Warner
Herzog who like spent a lot of time with
Elon
and he was like you know great German
documentarian.
Great narrator.
Amazing narrator. Amazing. In fact, when
I met him, his son went to college to me
with me and introduced me um to to uh
Werner and um I was like, "How was
Simon?" You know, his son and he goes,
"Oh, Simon, you know, injured his hat
like in his like typical German. I'm
going to botch it." But he starts
narrating his son's like, you know, uh
uh basically like like
his bicycle. [laughter]
Yes. Yes.
And when he came to the ground, his hand
was broken. [laughter]
Yes. Yes. He kept going super describing
that monotone like like grizzly man
style like and feeling the pain of his
hand. [laughter]
He couldn't go. Yeah.
I was like, "Oh, I hope he feels better
now." [laughter]
Imagine him reading bedtime stories at
night. Eh, wild him or Morgan Freeman.
Exactly. [laughter]
Exactly. Um, so I spent a little bit of
time with him and he was like, you know,
I think he really admired Elon. They
spent some time together, but he was
like, "What are you going to do on
Mars?" like you're going to like put
yourself in a telephone booth, an
oxygenated telephone booth. Like he was
like, "This isn't realistic. This is
crazy."
Not only uh from the standpoint of, you
know, I always point out as I'm sure you
do and others in the UFO world that like
the chemical combustion thing is a
fool's errand. Like literally like using
like physics as we know it, like
Newtonian laws doesn't make any sense.
Just if you look at biological life time
scales to get to the next level. Even
this idea of the cardartesev scale yeah
is you know you have you know single
planet uh you know uh uh species you
have a multilanet species multi- solar
system species multi- galaxy species
it's all couched under uh that species
ability to harness energy
harness energy
can you harness the energy of your
planet can you harness the energy you
know Dyson sphere of the sun or whatever
[snorts]
um that itself is probably extremely
limited by our frameworks and so it's
probably something way more like
consciousness if there is any separation
between soul and body. Yeah.
It's obviously adaptive to not like be
stuck in like a meat suit if you're
traveling elsewhere.
Correct. Yeah.
And I think the other thing that you
said that I find very fascinating is
like, you know, there could be a whole
plethora of things going on.
If you admit that there are, you know,
one faction of aliens, the answer is
probably not one at that point. It's
it's kind of zero to infinity. Yes. You
know, [laughter] like the likelihood
that there is just one species that's
reached you is much lower than like
again it's either zero. The Firmeny
paradox is like it somehow is a paradox
or much more than that.
Yeah, it's a lot.
Yeah. What's the um what's what's the
thing in Star Trek it's called like the
is it the first protocol or what is the
the the prime directive?
The prime directive. Yeah. I feel like
that has some truth to it as well.
Oh, for sure. like where they're waiting
for us to get to a certain point. And
it's like I find if I were this like
omnipotent ruling being who is able to
create life and generate consciousness
within these complex life forms and sort
of am intelligent enough to manipulate
all of this and to watch it grow and to
like be the cedar of life throughout the
universe. seeing Elon build these, you
know, gasp propelled sort of uh ships uh
and trying to make it to like this
desolate dead planet to make to seed
life. I'd be like a
cute,
right? It's kind of like when I watch a
crow use a stick to get his food,
right? Where I'm like, "You're on the
right track, buddy. You're doing it.
Good job."
You know, you're so cute and smart.
Yeah.
Um, but I I do think like, you know,
anything we can think of has probably
already been thought of in the universe
and in the grand scale
of of of where information lives. I
don't think we're making anything new.
And so, no,
you know, all of this uh all this whole
process of trying I think is is cute.
But I ultimately think that if that's
the goal, then someone had already
achieved it in the universe. M
you know it's like if if this world were
to disappear tomorrow, we'd come up with
the same math formulas if a new one
appeared.
Yeah.
Like so where where does that come from?
Right. Information isn't a cloud. It's
all around us. It's
sort of omnipresent. Uh and so we're not
really inventing anything. We're just
kind of just rediscovering things all
the time. And if that's true, then fast
forward it all and it probably already
exists. And so therefore, you know,
we're probably already being observed by
these things. And you know, and they're
just kind of like, oh, that's nice.
Yeah. What they're doing. And then maybe
when somebody lights up along the vector
they care about, the consciousness
thing, they take note.
Yes.
And they take an interest.
Yeah.
Um, speaking of the Elon thing, you
know, there are all these rumors. You
you did an amazing piece on Chris Blood,
so I recommend everybody check out this
guy in North Carolina. He had some very
anomalous experiences involving beings
in a craft. And he started to get
visited by all these higherups at NASA
and the CIA. What do you make of these
rumors that NASA is more than meets the
eye and that actually the history of
rocketry is much stranger than we think?
You have like stories of Jack Parsons,
the founder of the American rocket
program saying, you know,
basically implying he was in touch with
other intelligence along with Chikovsky,
the you know, Russian equivalent. Warner
von Braonn was definitely very trippy
guy. And [snorts] I think if you rewind
even more so, you get into the Nazis
infatuation with the occult as well,
right? And where did a lot of those
Nazis end up,
you know, after through paperclip and
through and through um
running our space program.
Yeah, exactly. Running our space
programs and then and uh and Overcast as
well, right? And so like you Lord knows
where those people are, you know, so in
other in other, you know, denominations
and defactions of the government. But,
you know, so you have to think that like
that was some type of weird tradition
that those sort of Nazis were doing back
in the day first. They were kind of
already and then like rewind further
back, you know, and
if the further you go back, the more
that this stuff becomes really really
relevant and it just I don't think it
just ever went away,
you know? I don't think this is new that
like NASA's doing this.
Yeah. Yeah. So, what do you make of do
you believe like Diana Pulka, you know,
wrote some amazing books on UFOs. She's
a religious studies professor. She talks
about
second century Latin being written.
Yeah. Like old Latin.
Old Latin. Uh uh I think on the the
rocket like the fairing or something. Um
what do you what do you make of that?
Yeah, I looked into a lot of those
patches actually which was really
interesting. like they have these launch
patches, these mission patches at NRO
and a lot of them are just kind of
morale boosters and you know I was even
trying to figure out like who's
designing these and for the main part
it's the crew. Uh the crew are the ones
that are in charge of what the patches
are and the missions are. So sometimes
you'll see little Easter eggs in those
patches with like crew initials and that
type of thing. And then other times,
yeah, you'll see like kind of more
esoteric or occult, you know,
depictions. Yeah.
You do an amazing and like in each
almost all of your episodes, you do like
a patch review.
Yeah. The the earlier ones. Yeah. We do
we do a lot of those. Yeah.
And they're fantastic. And some of them
are so strange. It's like the the devil
you know is is is you know, the devil
you know is better than the devil you
don't or something. And it's like
why are you writing this? or like, you
know, you talk about Misty Echo, which I
think you tweeted, you know, on the uh I
think it was an Area 51
patch. It's so And it's like an egg,
like a lady inside the egg
flying
and you're is you asked the question, is
it are you just totally messing with us
or you know, and it's like this
hilarious inside joke or is there
something to it?
I think it's both.
Yeah.
Yeah. I definitely think it's both. I
think sometimes it's one, sometimes it's
the other, sometimes it's more.
Mhm. Uh but you know if you if you
listen to Diana Pulkin, she talks about
this a lot about the ritualistic sort of
performative
uh rituals that they do prior to
launching like wearing the same type of
clothes or standing in a certain spot or
eating a certain food or whatever that
is. There's like there's these minor
rituals. And I think the way that she
kind of puts it is that
the math on rocket launching it has to
be so accurate.
Like the physics on it and everything
has to line up so almost divinely
because if there's a hair off of any one
of these components and all of these
compartmentalized components by the way
like when you're working this isn't just
UFOs. When you're working at a rocket
company you're compartmentalized. You're
not, you don't know what part this goes
to. You just have to make it do the one
thing they're asking. Be much easier if
they could tell you what it's for, but
they don't, right? So, all of these
things have to line up. That's so
precise like
Yep.
no deviation.
And so, they think that, well, why not
also line that up, the spiritual?
Yeah. Yeah. And so part of me
understands that like if you're if
you're working with stuff that's so
precise, lives are in danger a lot of
times.
You know what I mean? And and a lot of
money is on the line and a lot of
pressure and a lot of stress like you
know I I don't I don't see the
difference between that and praying.
Oh yeah. No. So I do think there is like
this divine alignment that they now the
question is
is there a data set that shows a
significant
uh difference.
Yeah. Well I think I think both of us
would say the data set is just
parasychology or something. It's like
the it's like the the random event
generator stuff like your mind and its
orientation has any impact on reality.
Right. Exactly. So doing these rituals
probably amplifies that positive outlook
towards the outcome and thus maybe
collapses the wave function in that you
know particular way.
Um so you know there might be something
to it. Um I I do think everything is
balanced and you know there was an
interesting thing that Bledsoe said that
Chris Bledsoe said that he was told as
well is that like they were like why do
our rockets get shot like they're
they're not getting launched out there
and he asked uh are there weapons on
them?
And they said yeah and he goes
that's why
that's why it's not working. They don't
want it to work. That's what he said. So
you know I don't know whether there's
any truth to that.
Yeah.
But I think maybe the you know intention
is obviously a very important factor in
sigh.
Yeah.
Uh and I think in life
and outcomes in life.
Correct. Absolutely.
And so if the intent is to harm
uh defend or attack regardless.
Yeah. I think that maybe you would need
to,
you know, sort of align yourself
elsewhere.
Mhm.
Uh so that it so that it happens.
Yeah. You have to balance it out.
So like align yourself with bad factions
to make it work if
interesting.
Yeah. It's it's really fascinating. I
mean, even you can watch like, you know,
Countdown to Launch about SpaceX and
Gwen Shotwell, who's the COO of SpaceX,
who basically runs it at this point,
she's like, I wear my special shoes, you
know, for for launch or whatever. Like
like everybody in that world does have a
ritual. And Jack Parsons actually read
uh this book called The Golden Bow by JG
Frasier, this 19th century
anthropologist.
And that book involves hermetic magical
rituals among indigenous tribes. and
they engage in two forms of magic.
Homeopathic magic and sympathetic magic.
Homeopathic magic, I'm sure you're
somewhat familiar with these concepts,
you know, is like uh I believe the
likeness of, you know, an object you're
trying to affect. So, it's like a voodoo
doll or something. And sympathetic magic
is like, you know, hair, teeth, and
nails, like literally like stuff from
the thing you're trying to affect. So,
all this seems like kind of this, you
know, weird witchcraft or whatever. But
JG uh uh JG Frasier, this
anthropologist, notices that when these
tribes encounter kind of enlightenment,
skepticism, and thought, the rituals
lose their power.
Right?
And um Jack Parsons read that book and
he came out saying, "I believe that uh
science is a form of magic. Magic is not
a form of science." Which you being a
magician, I don't know. I don't know how
you feel about that because we've gone
back and forth on you know and you're
like you know there are all sorts of
things that seem like sort of totally
remarkable and you're like yeah but like
I could tell you how to do that and then
there are other things where you're like
but given the right circumstances for a
magician like magicians are more likely
to encounter sort of miracles as well.
Yeah.
So like how how do you reconcile that's
so fascinating?
Yeah. Um, yeah. No, I am kind of torn on
that because on one hand, I do believe
that everything can be explained
prosaically.
Mhm.
As a magician, that is my job.
To deconstruct something. So, my job is
to make the impossible seem real, right?
It's a very strange and and and hard
thing to do.
So, you know, for instance, we would
start with the effect, which is the
moment of astonishment. that the
spectator would feel and uh and then
work backwards from there. Right? So
what the effect is, let's say, okay, you
want the effect to be uh 100 people
seeing a UFO appear in the sky. Okay. So
the method that I'm that I'm thinking
like there's so many methods that I can
go back to is okay, there's technology
obviously we can involve some type of
like hologram technology. We can amplify
that using probably sound as well, even
like some type of vibration. Uh we can
then amplify that. We can probably mask
some uh some of that as well. If it was
nighttime, right? Obviously, you can you
can get away with a lot more at night.
Maybe in the middle of the night if we
wake these people up, they'll be a
little bit more susceptible to using
their imagination and being in like this
dream state.
um you know perhaps these people as well
are more inclined to believe something
like this before we get into it. Let's
survey the area and try to find people
who would be more inclined to believe in
something like this. You know, so when
you start deconstructing things as a
magician, you can create the reality,
right? You create the framework for what
they believe is real.
Yeah.
And that that's what SCOP is, too. It's
the exact same thing.
That's literally where my mind went.
It's like if you were perpetrating a
SCOP in this area, you'd look for like
these specific traits around like high
impressionability. Yeah. Like, oh, this
person's like just really susceptible to
sort of being tricked and then like
but also like really good like
communicator or something. Or you might
also you might also like uh for for
months ahead,
you know, be dropping little hints here
and there around town. You know, have
somebody say, "I saw this weird light
the other night."
Or have this newspaper article, you
know, that or or a horoscope that says,
"Hey, you're going to see something in
the sky." And like all these things that
you could just plant,
you know, psychologically to prime the
the moment of astonishment. So when you
hear of a story like you know Fatima you
know Portugal like 1917 you know these
three orphans get this sort of you know
prophecy that uh you know the Virgin
Mary is going to come and then these
lights in the sky appear among like 100
plus people or whatever
do you does your mind immediately go to
SCOP or does it go to maybe something
happened or you just don't know?
I don't always think SCOP.
Yeah. I think that we sigh up ourselves
sometimes, right? Using imagination and
and what we want to see.
Um, now again, I think everything can
have a prosaic explanation. I don't
believe that the prosaic explanation is
what happened.
But everything can have a prosaic
explanation. So that's why, you know,
when I see people like Mick West
debunking things, I'm like, "Yeah, I can
do that, too."
Totally.
Everybody can do that. It's it's as a
magician, I know a ton of methods, more
methods than Mick West knows. I can
guarantee you to trick the eye
and to trick the senses. It's, you know,
I've been studying it for a very long
time. So, yes, it's not hard
to fake anything.
Yeah.
Period. But what we have to look at is
is that what is that what's happening?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And you know, in some cases, I think it
might be and in some cases I think it
might not be. I think I think the
prosaic explanation in some cases is
just a flying saucer.
Yeah. I think that's the you know I
maybe it's not an angel you know because
in that case that would be the prosaic
explanation if you think it's an angel
it's actually nuts and bolts it's less
romantic it's not that you know
um and so depending on your paradigm
like that you know your your view of
prosaic changes as well but
um you know that specific case is really
interesting because there were so many
witnesses
and some witnesses were on camera saying
what they saw so it does sound like an
object
you know But there is a absolute
difference between
these prophetic messages from this uh
from this lady
and
this round whizzing rainbow colored
object darting around the sky and then
eventually went back to the sun or
whatever look looking like the sun. This
is two different things.
Yeah. you know, I'm not seeing the same
thing was, you know, if it was a lady
darting around the sky like this, then
I'd be like, "All right, that's, you
know, kind of like the same thing here
we're talking about." But it's not,
you know, we're talking about some type
of figure that came to these and now
we're talking about this erratic
physical object in the sky, right? Are
they correlated perhaps? you know, and
like maybe this is like a bledo thing
where, you know, there was some
extraterrestrial stuff, then there was
like this prophetic imagery and this
presence of a female um entity. I don't
know, you know, I don't know. There's
just not enough data there to really I
would love to, you know, um interview
some of those people, but even then, you
know, memory is completely fallible and
is the worst piece of evidence. it is
the most compelling for me because I
love hearing people's experience and I
think you know looking them in the eye
you can tell if someone's being truthful
but what that truth is I think is
subjective
um you know as again as a magician our
job is not only to fool you um using
visual senses or auditory senses or
touch or smell or anything but also we
fool you using memory
we engineer memory and that is a big
that is a big sort of secret that most
magicians, you know, they're they're I
guess kind of aware of it. They just
don't kind of give it any thought.
Yeah.
But the engineering of memory is very
important to an experience. And so what
a magician will do and again like it's
it sounds like I'm talking about scop by
the way and I want to preface that like
it is almost one and the same thing but
it's if if you were on a moral scale
scop would be over here and a magic
trick would be over here. So like we're
using the same techniques that moment of
astonishment you feel when seeing a
magic trick if you were to put that on a
negative scale that would be a scop.
Right. [laughter]
Right. So, we're using the same method,
but we're using it for noble purposes of
entertainment only.
For instance, as an example,
uh, if I handed you something and say,
uh, have a look at this.
Mhm.
Have a look.
Yeah.
It's very, very important that you have
a look at that. Okay.
Yeah.
All right. I'll take that back.
Okay.
Okay. So, here's what we'll do. Um,
I want you to imagine this ring just
kind of disappearing. Okay. All right.
Wow.
So, the ring's gone.
Gone.
What's over here? [laughter] But yeah,
so
um in in your mind as a spectator
Yeah.
Uh this is very important, right? Cuz I
said this is important. Hold this in
your hand. It's important. You feel it
in your hand, right?
And then I kind of go and so and now I
relax.
And so this moment is this is a false uh
false transfer we call it, right? where
it's like it looks like I'm bringing it
over here, but it's still over here.
But I've practiced actually give putting
it in my hand a thousand times so that,
you know, I can just get it to a point
where it looks like I I'm looks like I'm
handling it, but but I'm not actually
handling it, right?
But that moment was so nothing. That was
a nothing moment. This here, this is a
nothing. You're not going to remember
that.
And I I deemphasized it in my head
because you said, "Look at it. This is
important.
That's important." And then I put no
emphasis on this.
And I put all the emphasis here. Yeah.
All the emphasis is over here.
Right. None of it was on here on this
moment.
Yeah.
Right. And if I did this and kept
staring at this hand, you would you
would be suspicious. So it's everything
leads you over here and this is nothing.
Yeah.
And so later when you immediately recall
what happened, this is a very basic
simple example. I could give you a
better example eventually, but just
right now, if you were to recall, you
know, what happened immediately to
someone else, you would say, "I I saw
the ring.
I held the ring.
I saw him put it in his hand,
and when he opened his hand, it was
gone."
And that's not what happened.
Mhm. Mhm.
Right. So, there's like there's like a
small lapse in a small little detail
that you didn't pick up on is that he
had it in one hand and he put it into
his other hand. He didn't just take it
back and it was gone, right? But that
little moment, that non-moment is not
going to be shelved by your brain. Your
brain has other things to do. It's not
going to start remembering all the
useless [__]
Well, and it's sort of adaptive to like
not be hypervigilant about those things.
Yeah, cuz I told you
we have like limited space or whatever.
Yeah.
I think we have unlimited space, but
you're trained to to to just not store.
Yeah. Cuz you'd go insane,
you know, if you were to remember every
mundane detail of your day. %
and there's some autistic people that
can and they they're almost insane.
Yeah, there's like Yeah, like Kim Peakim
the weather July 27th 1519 or what you
know like
friend of mine wrote up an algorithm for
that by the way that I learned that I
committed to memory. I don't do it
anymore because you got to practice it.
Whoa.
Yeah, there's a there's a there's an
actual like algorithm you can go through
in your head to figure out what day you
were born.
As a magician, he wrote a book on that,
you know. So that's fascinating.
Yeah. We're always using like these
interesting cases to try and figure out
how to like turn it into a magic trick,
right? It's just more methods. We love
methods, psychology, slight, all this
stuff. We love it. We collect it
to create the illusion because the
illusion is never one thing. It's a it's
a it's a group of many things. And
that's what makes a well-rounded
scoph
or illusion
is these, you know, this
well-roundedness. So in this case,
you're taking these two really important
things, the emphasis of me here and the
emphasis of you holding a physical
object together.
Now it's impossible. Yeah.
You know, and now you're in sleeves or
it's this. So if I were to have rolled
up my sleeves, you like
whoa. And now you're kind of like, no
answer. And so you're left, I guess it's
impossible. I guess it's an anomaly. I
guess it's UFOs. Right? So this is this
is the same mindset that experiencers
have um versus someone who sees a magic
trick. It's the exact same thing that
happens. Now this isn't to say that what
experiencers are seeing or feeling or
experiencing isn't real and it isn't to
say what they're saying happened didn't
happen. I'm saying there is a lapse in
memory in instantly after an experience.
And an experiencer and someone seeing a
magic trick is very very similar. When
you see a magic trick and you want to
explain what happened and magicians know
this, we do this at gigs if we're
performing. will stick around and we'll
like just eaves drop
on someone explaining to someone else
what that magic trick what I just did
and immediately they're saying something
so crazy so impossible
like I'm literally Jesus now like and
I'm doing these mirror I'm like I didn't
do that crazy you know but I'm a legit
I'm getting paid all right whatever
but the truth is that they're
embellishing for two reasons and none of
which are like nefarious none of them
are malicious or anything They're
they're not they don't want to purposely
deceive people or lie to people.
But there's two reasons they do that.
One is because they don't want you to
think that they are dumb.
They don't want you to think that you
didn't consider all the variables,
right? So they'll invent variables
because they know deep down that that
was impossible.
Yeah.
But even though they didn't check my
sleeves,
they'll be like, "No, his sleeves were
rolled up." That's fascinating because I
want I want you to get to number two,
but the amount of UFO experiencers I've
heard actually downplay the experience.
So like retrace the um you where there's
like a public version and a private
version where like the public version is
like I saw a thing I don't know what it
is. Could have been fake and then they
say it in private and they're like it
answered all these questions for me. I
was conflicted beforehand and it
telepathically spoke to me. Couldn't say
that part on air or whatever, you know.
Yeah,
that's fascinating.
Yeah. And there might be another reason
for that too. There is the reason like
people don't want to be judged. Sure.
You know what I mean? So they will like
Betty and Barney Hill for example
telling the Air Force one story and then
telling the psychologist another story.
Same story different details. One of
them was more numbers you know distance,
size, speed and and the other one was
more like no I felt this you know and so
there is that too to consider but the
second reason would be um you want
people to feel what you felt. M
and that's a very human thing to want.
We want to self-express, but that
self-expression means we want people to
experience what we're trying to express
to them.
And there's no way of actually doing
that. And and and there's an even
there's even less of a way of doing that
if you just convey the data,
right? So if I tell you, oh, he handed
me a ring to look at. He took it back in
one hand and put it back and then put it
in his other hand. and when his other
hand opened it was gone. You would say,
"Yeah, but it was in the other hand,
right?" So now there's like now there's
like it's too mundane. It's not magical
and it doesn't convey what you felt when
I made that ring disappear.
Yeah. It's almost um honest on the
details but more dishonest on your
subjective experience. The details.
And so by doing that because you want
you don't want the other person to
necessarily
believe you. You want them to feel what
you felt.
Yeah. And so sometimes we'll round off
the edges. We'll erode the truth a
little bit. Not enough for me to call
you a liar, but enough to where if you
were to put this on paper, it would
actually matter. It would actually
affect and skew the data.
Yep.
And we don't again, we do that
subconsciously. Yes. And I see it all
the time with magic. It's it's innocent
with magic because it's like whatever.
It's just a it's not as important as a
as an experience. But yeah.
Yeah. often like the Carl Young
synchronicity thing is like it actually
doesn't matter what the underlying event
is that much like it doesn't have to be
some perfect synchronicity the meaning
you place on it matters correct
and so if you like place a specific
meaning on this thing that leads you to
this other thing and it's kind of you're
being led to this like lower entropy you
know like some destination that you're
supposed to arrive at it feels like a
teiology this meaningful direction then
like that's all that matters and that
actually it doesn't matter if you saw
the flying sauce or didn't see the
flying s that you know.
Yeah. Cuz what you're trying to
communicate isn't fact. What you're
trying to communicate is emotion.
You're trying desperately to communicate
your emotion by using words.
And so, of course, things will be lost
in translation because, you know, if you
could if you could communicate something
to them and put a little music on,
you know what I mean? That would
probably actually help you
put them in in your position a little
bit more and make them feel what you
felt. Cuz that's what we're trying to
do. Um, a lot of times when we
experience things and when experiencers
are saying what they felt, you hear the
the sort of like the the fear and but
there are I know that there are details
that they're unaware of and it's not
because they're doing it on purpose, but
it's human nature.
And so, as a magician, I know that
that's something I have to also observe,
but I know that I also can't be
completely contingent on that being the
whole experience. It's like I I can't I
can't, you know, discount what I'm
hearing either. But you do have to, I
think, practice a certain discernment
when listening to stories like this. And
it's the same when people tell me about
a trick that a magician showed them,
which always happens.
You're like, "Oh, I had this magician
once. He did this, this, and this." I
know exactly what trick they're
referring to. Yeah.
When they give me those details, right?
And I So, I know I find it cool as a
magician because I'm like, "Oh, he did a
good job
because this person clearly doesn't
remember all the other things the
magician did, right?" Um, so that memory
had been successfully engineered and
impregnated in this person's psyche. Um,
but you sidestep the most trippy part of
the question, which is that miracles, in
your opinion, you've you've told this to
me offline,
the second part,
that miracles seem to happen more around
magicians.
Yes. magicians who
if they're intellectually honest would
not be self-described as Jesuslike
characters would just be practitioners
of things that are explainable in the
materialist paradigm. Correct. But you
were saying miracles occur more around
these people.
Yeah. And interesting enough that uh
Russell Tar actually mentioned this too
that like in his younger days he was a
stage magician and would experience
actual miracles
during those moments on stage. Russell
Tar ran uh the CIA psychic spy program
Stargate. He was one of the founders
along with Halputo off.
That's right. But magicians today,
ironically, are the most disillusioned
and disenchanted
uh people because we're aware of methods
because we're aware of how things
function. Most magicians end up being
like atheists or like like Pen and
Teller famously who are good friends of
uh The Amazing Randy. We're all
atheists, you know, still are and a lot
of magicians are and they take pride in
that, right? because it's like they have
the answers now
so there's no actual magic left and I
was part of that for a long time too
where I thought I knew everything and
everything had a psychological you know
explanation for it
but then sometimes and I started
noticing this miracles would happen
okay if you know any magician out there
if you're listening and you have a
friend who's a magician or maybe an
online magician that you know Just reach
out to them and ask them to tell you
about a miracle that happened. I
guarantee you they're going to go
through about a dozen in their mind
before they before they give you like an
answer. And it'll be an impossible
thing. You'll think that's there's no
way that that happened. Um, so these
things happen for I think multiple
reasons.
One, ironically,
magicians are the closest to actual
magic without realizing it. Like we are
so close to real magic because every day
when we perform
a we we play with odds.
So if you think of random number
generator right these are odds on this
quantum field whatever these these
possibilities we play with them.
Mhm.
And
we have something magicians have
something called outs.
Okay. These are So if I go into a magic
trick and I mess it up,
Mhm.
you don't know [snorts] because I have
an out and that out still gives you a
magical effect. So you're none the
wiser. You think that was the trick all
along that everything that happened,
magician in trouble, uh was part of the
act, right? And if I if I'm a good
magician, I can make it look that way.
And so it looks like I'm fumbled but I
recovered. And you're like, "Oh, he just
fumbled on purpose."
that's a thing we do.
So
sometimes we like to and I say we I
speak for myself but I know other
magicians do this too. We we we take
chances we shouldn't be taking.
And sometimes sometimes for whatever
reason
we don't have an out for something and
we go for it anyways.
And it's it's I describe it as a stupid
confidence. Mhm.
It's a blind confidence that makes no
sense. It's not a I hope this goes well.
It's just do it. Like something comes
over you
and you just go with it and it's high
stress environment.
Yeah.
It's a lot of there's no out. So you
know that
you know there's no out.
Is there something you can think of now?
Yeah.
How would what what is that?
There's plenty. One really good example
I was in Bermuda with some friends,
magician friends of mine. We were at a
bar. There's a group of people we were
doing. We were kind of shuffling cards
to each other. You know, people are
like, "Oh my god, you guys magicians or
whatever." So, started doing some magic
to this group of people. So, this girl,
I take her phone and I'm going to guess
her pin code to her phone, right? Guess.
So, at this point, uh, I have her phone
on the bar. She, you know, she'd give me
her phone, I put on the bar, and I I
already know her passcode at this point.
I won't tell you how I know that, but
I've figured out a way.
It's wild. to have that piece of
personal information without her
knowledge.
So now as a magician my um presenting
mind what what what makes a good
magician is is using that information
and um theatrically revealing it somehow
to create the effect. Right? So I have
the information. I could just go punch
it in and she go wow. And that'd be it.
Right? Not a really great trick. I mean,
it's great, but it's not, you know,
could be better. So, presentation. So, I
have this number. I put her phone down
the bar. Now, at this point in my head,
when I do these tricks, especially this
one, I always look at the number and
then I can cold read a little bit,
right? So, you know, let's say it's um
let's say it's like all ones,
right? Um, I could I could for instance
say, "Oh, you you seem like a person
who's like got a lot to do in a hurry
and you need to get into your phone
really fast. You probably text and drive
as well, don't you?" So, I can deem all
these things just from 1111. And also,
like, if it was 99999,
I know that you're probably left-handed,
right? So, there's all these like little
tells that you can get once you have the
information. And like even if you're
wrong, it's like you're like, "No,
okay." You kind of play it off,
whatever. It's cold reading. It doesn't
matter, but it can add to the effect
again. So, you know, you do this once
you have the information. You kind of
play around with this and act sort of
psychic or whatever. And she placed her
phone down at the bar. Uh, it's four
numbers. And I I do I really I do this
for this specific reason. Sometimes I
just add lib. I don't know where I'm
going with this. And I'll just I'll just
be like, "Let's try this." Because I
know that if it does work, it'll be a
freaking miracle. Yeah.
And if it doesn't, then I'll just put
the code in myself and it'll still
that'll be my out and it's fine.
Yeah.
And so I go, "You're not going to open
your phone." I stupid confidence. I
said, "You're not going to open your
phone. He is." And I point to the
bartender. I said, "He's going to open
your phone." And uh she's like, "No
way." You know, and he's like, "All
right, cool. I'm in." You know, and so I
go, "All right. Uh, put in four random
numbers. See if the phone opens." And he
puts in four and it doesn't open. We
call this an offbeat. I go, "That would
have been a miracle."
You know what I mean? And then everybody
laughs like cuz they're like the the
suspense was like, "Oh my god, is it?"
And it doesn't work. I'm like, "Of
course it doesn't work.
That'd be ludicrous to think that that
would work."
I'm like, "Maybe it has to be more of a
personal number."
Mhm.
So I said, "Um, put in your birthday."
And he puts in his birthday and the
phone opens.
What? So now I gotta play it cool,
right? Because I'm the magician and I
made this happen. this was the trick all
along for them, right?
Uh but for me, I'm screaming like a
little child on the inside cuz I'm like,
"Holy [__] this is a real miracle." And
these people don't even know. Like they
know, but they don't know.
And so instinctively because I knew what
the numbers were. It was like um 0212 or
something or something like that. It was
like a birthday.
Yeah. Yeah.
And so been doing this long enough to
recognize birthdays and I could, you
know, I could tell her her star sign at
this point. And I could like do all
these different things cuz I have that
information now. Um but I go
but that's a 1 in 365 chance for no even
more because I pointed to someone.
Yeah. And there there are uh four four
number you know permutations that don't
even involve.
Yeah. It could have been this way too.
It could have been month day or day
month.
Oh my god.
Right. And it could have been six-digit
passcode on his phone.
So here's the thing. I said I said to
her I go um I gave her her birthday.
Mhm. And I said, 'You guys are born on
the same day. And they're freaking out.
And not only are they born on the same
day, they both have a four code pass
password. And they both use the same
password on their phones.
You were purely going on instinct.
Yep.
That's insane.
Yeah. He also had that password on his
phone.
That's wild.
Yeah. So I'm I'm here.
If you could figure out hers, did you
not figure out his and then line them
up?
So no, I didn't know what his I didn't
You didn't You didn't speak to him at
all. It was just like you brought him in
at the end.
The idea was if he got it wrong
Y
I would uh I would see what he's
punching in.
Mhm.
And I would know his birthday and I
would know his star sign. So I would use
that later on in something else.
Interesting. That's funny.
Yeah. I'm just I'm doing some recon
stuff at the same time. I'm like attempt
you would get third attempt because you
knew it.
Yeah. Third attempt I would perhaps if I
wanted to establish some connection and
say, "Hey, I said you were going to open
the phone. So here's what I want you to
do. Maybe uh here hold my hand and I'm
just going to try and channel something
that's in your mind. And now I put the
passcode in so it looks like I'm
channeling it through him. You know, I
could do that. I don't know. I'm
thinking out loud right now. But like
these are like options that I can always
play with and variables that I can
manipulate to make the effect seem
bigger than it actually is. And that's
the magician's job of being an
entertainer. I want to I want to
entertain these people.
[snorts]
Um, so doing this where he punches his
birthday in and they and it opens and
that's also the passcode to his phone
and like now there's this like weird Now
there is the birthday paradox. I don't
know if you're aware of this but like in
a room of 25 people two people will
share the same birthday.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Um,
it's a mathematical paradox.
Is that a paradox or is that just a
paradox? Yeah. It makes no sense that
it's a likelihood.
Yeah. Yeah,
one one in 25 would not
I think it's one in 25. Let me be sure
before I
Why is that a parad? Why is that uh more
likely than not?
That's the wise paradox.
But how can you even study? Like how
could how could one know that like they
just randomly sampled a bunch of rooms
or something a bunch of times? Like
I would guess. Yeah. Um trying to bring
it up right now in chat GPT to make sure
I'm saying what's correct here. Birthday
paradox refers to the surprising
probability Oh, here here it is. that in
a group of just 23 people, there's a 50%
chance that at least two of them share
the same birthday.
This counterintuitive result comes from
the probab comes from probability theory
and the way that combinations work.
Mhm. So it is expected through some
through probability theory.
Yes, through probability theory.
It seems beyond chance.
Yes, it seems beyond chance. Correct. So
with 57 people, there's a 99% match.
Wow.
Right. So there is that to factor in as
well.
Sure.
But then you have to factor in that I
pointed to this guy, but then I pointed
to him. I didn't ask who shares the same
birthday here. No.
You know, so there's all these extra uh
things and that a lot of times what'll
happen is people don't realize the
miracles because the magician and I
can't say I had no idea this guy would
have the same birthday because now I
don't look like a magician anymore.
So I have to play it cool.
And magicians have those stories.
So many of them. every one of them. Ask
a really interesting thing. Ask any
magician you know to tell you an actual
miracle and he will tell you a miracle.
And the chances are that the conditions
are similar.
So I've surveyed probably a hundred
magicians. I have all their answers.
I've written them all down. It's really
interesting. And the and I also asked
them like what um what are the
conditions? So what time what uh point
of the performance did this happen?
Mhm.
um were were you uh did you have an
out
and did you build rapport with these
people?
And a lot of times is the condition is
uh later when you're feeling in the zone
kind of like tuned in almost where
nothing can go wrong.
Yeah.
You feel like you're walking on water.
You're flowing.
Yeah. Exactly. You're in a flow state.
Uh two is there is no out. There can be
an out, but the out's not going to be
great.
Yeah. you know that like it's not a
decent out.
It's almost like with um sigh or remote
viewing like the survival instinct. It's
like you don't really have a backup.
There's no plan B.
You and you have to stupidly stupid
confidence like something has to come
over you.
Y
and you just go with it knowing that you
feel this confidence and this like flow
and nothing can go wrong and
everything's going to go right. You know
if you have a doubt it's probably you're
going to have to jump back to some weird
out. Mhm.
But if there's no doubt, you just do it
and it work like that's where it works.
And so like the Yeah. The third part is
that um
this rapport. So a lot of times I mean
I've done this trick probably. I have a
I'll I'll show you a trick after.
Okay.
I don't want to spoil it.
But I'll show you a trick. And
can we do it on air?
Yeah, we could do it on air.
We don't have to do it now. We could do
it at the end if you want. Why don't we
do it?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Um, given all of this amazing
experience that you have, um, what do
you think is, you don't have to call
anybody out, but they're obvious,
obviously UFOs are are sort of, you
know, full of scops everywhere. Do you
think there is one or two in particular
as far as the emphasis like your, you
know, your example of the the ring where
it's like, I'm not really thinking about
the transfer of the ring from one hand
to the other. I'm I had been focused on
it when he told me to focus on it. Is
there something like that with UFOs
where it's like focus on the tip of the
iceberg when the tip of the iceberg
looks nothing like the rest of the
iceberg where there's some redirect or
shift in attention? Um
yeah, by whom are you
I don't know. I'm asking you like do do
you have an intuitive sense that there's
um a deliberate attempt to shift
attention in any directions? again uh
not not not going after anybody in
particular but like just narrative wise
and if not no worries you know
no I I 100% think it's a possibility
the problem with this type of illusion
or scop or whatever you want to call it
is that there's no way of proving or
disproving unless you have somebody
actually say it and even then you don't
know if that's just part of the
illusion.
Yep. So just much like a magic trick, I
don't know the outcome.
Yep.
So I can't tell you if it's deliberate.
Yeah. But you're more likely than the
average person to see a magic trick and
be like, "Oh, I see what he did. He like
emphasized this thing and he didn't this
other
because of pattern recognition and and
and understanding uh the trick."
Yeah.
Um but that's not to say that I can't be
fooled. Yeah. you know, as a magician,
I'm I'm still capable of being fooled
because I still abide by the same sense
as everyone else does. And those senses
can be manipulated. And if you're
performing to a magician, you do certain
things that the magician would expect
you to do. So, you counter
that, you know. So, if I do a trick and
I'm wearing a thumb tip,
you know, like a fake thumb and I'm
doing some slight of hand, a less
knowledgeable magician
or maybe even a more knowledgeable
layman
might think that the thumb tip has
something to do with the method, but I
can use it as a red herring to throw you
off the scent.
Have you spotted anything like this in
UFO world?
So, yeah.
Yes, but I can't be sure because I don't
know what the outcome is. Yep.
Anything you know again maybe speaking
in uh at whatever level of granularity
you feel comfortable with. Do you can
you talk about like how you spotted you
know anything in particular?
I mean a lot of it is um
I would say the the the the things that
come to mind to me are when people talk
about
their experiences. Mhm.
I think for me it raises a lot of red
flags in the words they choose to use
and also the frequency at which the this
story has been told and how it's been
molded over time.
Yeah.
And people get that. People in you
followed you pick that up too. They're
very smart. You know, they watch all
these videos and they go, "Oh, that he
didn't say that before." And that's
correct. And so like those things, I
think, have to be noted.
But also noted should be if you never
change your story at all. Are you
cognizant now that people are aware of
you changing your story might make you
look like you're not telling the truth?
So you're purposely not changing the
story. Like these are and again it's
impossible to prove.
Totally. You could see somebody getting
a little detail wrong and being like I
don't know if I got that right on the
spot and then it's this game of
telephone where you have to force fit
like the next you know telling of that
story
to like the version that you told the
first time around or whatever.
Yeah. And you're probably more likely
like let's say let's take the Rua
Zimbabwe uh experience for example.
Those children all kind of drew similar
things but they were all different
and the stories all varied slightly. I
think for me that is more believable.
Yeah. Of course
than everyone telling the exact same
story sounds like a script
or you were brainwashed or something was
orchestrated. Yeah. No, I because that's
like any memory.
Yeah. But you would say these kids
stories doesn't line up so it's not
true. intuitively.
Yeah, sure. Right.
But I think if you know how memory
actually works,
correct? You would say, "Oh, there is
there's a there there's something that
happened."
Totally.
That that they're all talking about a
similar thing with their perspectives
and their memories.
I also think if to some extent, you
know, seek and ye shall find like what
you're open to in terms of, you know,
your aperture like your your your what
you see in the possibility space of what
you can experience in life. If that in
any way dictates what you actually do
experience in like in life all uh
magicians experiencing possibly more
miracles.
Yeah.
Then there's a weird way in which some
people who are higher on the openness
scale and they experience these things.
I think it's actually somewhat um
blasze. It's like it's like this normal
experience cuz like they live in this
paradigm where like other beings exist
or whatever
and then you are sort of in certain
cases like it's like go on this podcast
or do a documentary or whatever and it's
like say your thing and then they have
to like be like okay like this is what
happened and then the eyes were all
buggy and blah blah blah and they have
to like get into this character when in
fact it was this like kind of
hermetically sealed thing that's just
like affected them a lot like on a per
but it was like deeply personal and I
could see there being cognitive
dissonance around around that where it's
like well I have to like tell it in this
way that's de facto an argument for the
thing having happened when in fact like
they experienced it and it's actually it
felt very benal and a part of their life
and maybe maybe bol is not the right
word because it was like sort of
mystical and sacred but like of course
it would happen because they're open to
it like that's that's their orientation.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Yeah. I mean it's absolute possibility
like I mean that's that's something
again I just can't you can't disprove
and you can't discount.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And you know knowing methodry doesn't
mean that that method was inherently
used. And that's what I keep coming back
to is that like everything is possible
as a magician.
Everything is possible.
Yep.
Um but because I can give you an
explanation for it that doesn't mean
that that's what happened. Y
and I think that's the difference
between like someone like James Randy
and I
Yeah. Yeah.
Whereas like if or MC West
just because you can't come up with an
explanation does not mean it's always
the explanation.
And you can come up with an explanation.
That's the other thing is like as a
magician that's my job. I have to come
up with a way that this works
no matter what. Like when you watch, you
know, certain magicians on television,
most people aren't aware that there is a
team of consultants that are like this
brain trust of magicians that are
gathered from the four corners of the
world to come up with the most
impossible magic tricks um and work with
the magician on camera to teach them or
help them or guide them into creating
the best possible illusion for the
audience at home. And this goes back in
time to every magician. Like we consult
each other. We talk I go to magic
conventions every year where there's
thousands of magicians and we talk about
secrets and we help each other with
justifications and subtleties and all
this stuff. So,
you know, I I I just think that like
people just aren't aware of how much
work goes into a lot of illusions. Like
it's a stupid amount of work and a
stupid amount of information that we
have to like retain in order to create
these illusions. But it's not
impossible.
You can do anything.
You can you can look at Copfield. You
walk through the wall of China. You can
make the Statue of Liberty disappear.
You know what I mean? You you can do
that.
Yeah.
Um
but that that doesn't necessarily mean
that he actually made the Statue of
Liberty disappear.
It means that that's what it looked
like. He made He made it look exactly
the same way. I can make it look like
I'm psychic. Yep.
You know, I can convince someone that
I'm psychic. That doesn't make me
psychic,
right? And it doesn't make uh Joseph
McMongle a magician. Correct.
You know. Yes.
And so it's this Yeah. It's just It's so
fascinating. It's so fascinating
learning from you and talking to you
about like some of these tricks where
I'm like, if I were to see them, I'd be
like, how could you ever orchestrate
them? And obviously I would know on some
level that they were fake, but like this
is, you know, let's try let's try
something here.
Okay, let's do it.
You have a six-digit passcode or a
fourdigit passcode?
Six.
All right. Put a random six numbers in.
Any random six in. Okay. And I should
remember which
No, just just random. Yeah. Random
didn't work.
Yeah.
Yes.
Again, that would have been a miracle.
That would have been insane,
right?
Yeah.
End of the episode. I would have been
like, "You're welcome."
Right. As just screaming on the inside.
I would have cut everything else and
that would have just, you know, YouTube
short.
Let's put in your passcode. I'll put it
this way so nobody sees it. See if that
works.
Okay.
Didn't work.
Yeah.
Okay.
Think of someone close to you.
Month, day, and year.
Their birthday.
Okay.
Who are you thinking of?
Can you say it?
Uh, my dad.
put his birthday in.
Okay,
good.
Dude, what?
Are you serious?
How the [__] did you do that?
I didn't do it. You did it. [laughter]
That's insane.
But how would you change it live? It
doesn't make any sense. It was your You
can't change your [__] thing live.
Like,
so what are you What are you thinking
about right now? Methods.
Yeah.
What's the method you're going with?
I mean, it's got to be You've got to be
able to change it live.
Okay. And even so, oh, you mean change
it after I found out that that you were
thinking of your dad.
Yeah.
But I already had my phone out
before I asked you to think of someone.
I know. So, like, how would you do that?
That maybe that's impossible. But then
how would you then you'd have to like
suggest you'd have to like use
suggestion to like get me to pick my dad
and then somehow have to know his
birthday which is that doesn't make
sense.
Mhm.
Yeah. This is really hard.
Can you just tell me now? Is is that is
this one of the times where you didn't
have an out and you just went for it and
like we could have cut this if like you
you had failed. Okay. So you you knew
what you were doing.
Yeah.
But you see how that can look that way?
Totally. Yeah. Know I can't figure I
need I need to I'm going to think about
this a lot.
Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. Someone someone with uh lower
moral standards
Mhm.
might tell you that that was actually
psychic.
Yeah.
That's the ethical line that magicians
have to walk.
Totally.
And that some magicians, and I won't say
names,
Yeah.
choose to ignore.
That's whack.
Yeah. It is super whack.
Yeah. Yeah.
But I love it in the context of
entertainment.
Mhm.
And I will always let you know like a
magician is the most honest profession.
Mhm.
Because they promise they're going to
lie and then they do.
Yep.
Can you say how you did it or no?
No, of course. I did it very well.
[laughter]
I'm going to be thinking about this a
lot.
Yeah.
I'm really curious. I This is so
fascinating.
Yeah.
You know, it's Yeah.
Think of your passcode.
Okay.
I already know a lot of information
about you. So, you know, they could
think at home that I might might have
seen you put your passcode in or
something, and that might be true.
Mhm.
But, you know, you're definitely someone
who is on the go a lot. You're
definitely someone who
um maybe is on their phone when they
shouldn't be.
Mhm. Oh, for sure. Yeah. All the time.
Um you got to get into your phone pretty
quick. You're pretty
jet set guy.
So, we're not talking about a very
complicated phone password. You're also
right-handed. Mhm.
I can tell here. So, my guess is that
it's happening.
Dude, what the [__] [laughter]
That's I'm changing it right after this.
We release this [__]
I hope it's not your pin code to your to
your bank as well.
That's nuts, dude. You just cold read
me. You would like ping off my like
registering of what you're saying or
what?
I just made it look that way,
dude. Dude,
that's magic.
That's really great.
Once once you already have the
information, you can do all the
performative [__]
stuff you want. [laughter] But it
doesn't make it less interesting. I
think
you'd be a good spy man.
Yeah. John Mhalland.
Yeah. Yeah.
CIA trainer.
Train the CIA and deceptive practices
and subtrauge in the 50s.
Wrote a manual on it.
John D.
The magician in Queen Elizabeth's court.
and he was, you know, a magician, but
also he would sort of he'd blur the
lines and say he was communicating with
angels through like an, you know, magic.
Who knows, you know?
Where do you tow the line? I mean,
there's religious figures in history
that have done magic tricks, too.
Totally. Well, you know, there's this
philosopher Rene Gerard who's this, you
know, French anthropologist at Stanford,
and he's sort of this kind of somewhat
heretical figure, but he had a cult-like
following. And he would talk about kind
of pagan scapegoating cycles of these
kind of magical figures, these figures
who would they would sort of use magic.
And so because of that, because of their
like use of like the seemingly
paranormal um you know, society would
have ailments and they would blame it on
these scapegoats because they seemed
sort of like larger than life or
whatever and they sort of come down on
them and and then uh
they would
blame them for everything, kill them in
these sort of scapegoating rituals and
then uh anoint them as gods. M
but often uh Gerard would talk about
them sort of developing real magical
powers once the the kind of uh
collective
closes in on them and says oh you know
this is real they start to like use real
magic to like defend themselves
and it becomes this like crazy mythology
like right before they die and so like
maybe in the beginning it is trickery.
Yeah.
And that's what it's this like really
you know um super weird blurred lines
sort of analysis of the thing.
Correct. Yeah. And Gerard himself is
like this character who's like there's
clearly something esoteric and
interesting going on
but he's also you know this like
anthropologist that
seemingly explains
on the like outer layer. He explains uh
the religious through this sort of just
you know anthropological purely human
you know lens. And that might have even
happened here on like a micro scale
where, you know, although the
information that I had, you know, I
obtained in some in some way or I knew
what you were going to say because of
something that I had preempted or
whatever that is, whatever that might
be. Um, your password is also closely
related to your father's birthday.
Yeah, I know that's I thought of that,
too.
I thought of that, but that wasn't why I
did it.
No, I know. Okay.
But that's again, maybe that's the real
magic.
Right. Yeah. That there's some sort of
like tie.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's so fascinating.
Well, I also I think of like, you know,
the word AAM's razor.
Mhm.
So, it's like this is, you know, it's
like uh or sorry, term, you know, where
it's like uh the shortest path or the
simplest explanation is correct.
Um and like this is something MC West or
like any of the James Randy any of these
debunkers would use.
Mhm. But if you actually look at the
etmology of the word, it came from this
guy William of Acham who is this
Christian monk from the 13th century.
And for him it was the least number of
entities responsible for a thing is
probably the the answer.
Oh, right. So like like like like a
lowest common denomination in terms of
like
the least coordination or whatever. And
and often that meant like a miracle
happens. It's God cuz it's like the
least number of entities. the one
the one
um and and and now I think cuz we're
swimming in this sort of skeptical
epistemological soup of like the age of
disenchantment you see something you say
Aam's razor and like the connotation
itself
skepticism
of AAM's razor is
prosaic
that has to be some Rube Goldberg
machine where we there is some causal
chain we just don't see it yet
yeah and that's that line that I want to
remain open to as a magician who is
aware of a thousand methods, you know,
um I don't want to let that get in the
way of learning if there if there isn't
another method.
Um because it if you look at even if I
look at my own personal experience, I
can definitely see that being the case.
Um sure, there's an explanation for all
these unexplainable things that have
happened to me, these synchronicities
and these birthday paradoxes and
whatnot. There are explanations for
them, but that doesn't mean that that is
the reason. Well, let's Okay, this is a
great great segue into this question,
which is what is something you've been
doing this for over a year now, and I'm
sure you've gone into a lot of things
thinking this is insane, you know, if
true. Like, you know, you just did this
amazing piece on the LERA files, these,
you know, documents uh from from Sweden
about these like reptilians or whatever.
And like that's among the more out there
things that you've covered, but you've
covered everything from that to like,
you know, definitely real historical
corroborated stuff with Danny Shehan.
You've had Lu Alzando on.
What's the thing that you went into
where you're like, I know this is or I'm
pretty sure this is fake, but it's going
to be interesting. Yeah.
And then you got kind of opted a little
by it and you're like, "Oh my god, I
think this is real." And I think there's
like actually a lot true to it. two
things specifically, the 4chan
whistleblower
um and the ebo biologist.
Those two corroborate each other first
of all, which obviously you could just
chalk up to one of them read one of the
files and based it on the other,
right?
Um they were the thing is that both of
these were created after AI had already
been I say AI after these GPT models
have already been slightly developed. So
there is, you know, a chance that they
were used in the process. Now, after
feeding those into AI, um, it doesn't
really tell you that it's made by AI,
but, you know, who knows? Um, and having
experts read, especially the
microbiology stuff that I, you know, I'm
just not educated enough to understand a
lot of that stuff. Uh, they seem to
think that this person is definitely
like doctorate level microbiology.
um
but also, you know, potentially a great
larper, a great storyteller, a great,
you know, creative fictional writer at
the same time.
Um
should we set both up real quick for the
audience? Yeah.
So, the 4chan whistleblower uh right
after I think this was 20 early 2023.
Could have been early 2023 or early 20
No, it was definitely early 2023. was be
it was after was it after or before
David uh David Grush? I think it might
have been before.
Mhm.
And then the microbiologist might have
been after. I think I might be getting
that mixed up. But anyways,
I think the microbiologist was after
correct. Yeah. So, the 4chan
whistleblower reported that he'd been
working on these crash retrievals for
like a for a decade or whatever it was
uh in the early 2000s, late 90s, and
that his job was to they were monitoring
these underground or underwater what
they called mobile construction units,
these massive,
you know, uh submerged UAPs that didn't
have lights that were shaped like giant
burgers apparently. and that they were
on the ocean floor and essentially
building to spec
to specifications to exact
specifications these UAP sh and sending
them out of the water to destinations
unknown. A lot of that is usually where
strife happens or you know maybe like a
secret nuclear dance between a couple
countries or or maybe even resource
collection whatever that is. and it
would like and they would always come
back. These UAP would always come back
into this MCU.
And his job was he said there was four
units deployed for these crash
retrievals. And he said first of all the
crashes he's like they happened more
often than people think. He's like these
beings are not perfect. They are
learning.
Um and so now he's like we see he's like
we see a lot less bodies in these
crafts. They're and he's he thinks
partially the reason for that is because
we recovered the bodies and they didn't
like that.
So they started developing like these AI
sort of ships that would fly around
instead. Anyways,
um yeah, so these crash these crashes
would happen. His team, he was on the
second team. He said the first team
would go in, clear out the bodies and
the element 115,
right?
Bazar.
Yeah. Uh they'd have one guy do that and
once the bodies were out, he would go
in, strip out the internal components of
the ship. So like the tools and like the
things that were on the walls and again
everything was built to spec. So if
there was like some type of instrument,
it would be perfectly placed in a wall
with a space made for it. Everything was
to spec.
Wow. for that, you know. So, they would
strip that out and then team three and
four would he said like all likelihood
just uh remove the bulk of the craft,
take it apart or whatever that is. So,
that was kind of his job and then he
would like speculate on what the
higherups would tell him, what he heard
and how the new management came in and
they've kind of shut everybody up and
you know, you can't talk about certain
things and just so this took me four
hours to read through. Um, so like I did
on four different videos because it was
this 4chan exchange which we all know is
a cesspool trying to like read through
4chan is is literal schizophrenia. It
doesn't it's not good for your health.
You [laughter] know what I mean? You're
going to find a lot of garbage there.
Um, and so it doesn't help. But if you
were to
want to become a whistleblower without
going through direct channels, because
obviously, you know, a lot of people
might argue that these aren't actual
whistleblowers if they're not saying
everything. You know, they're just kind
of being told what they're allowed to
say. Well, this guy's like, I'm going to
say everything. And he's like, I'm just
going to do it on here and this is going
to go nuts and it's unfiltered.
And the things that he was saying were
so interesting and kind of lined up with
UFO lore and at other points really
created new things within, you know,
this these this this landscape. And
towards the end, he said something that
really resonated and kind of haunts me
to this day. He said, "Notice yourself
coming back." He's like, "I'm not here
to convince you of anything, but notice
yourself coming back to this as more
information unfolds." It's exactly what
I've been doing. I've been going back to
it over and over and over and over.
When Lou mentioned the giant underwater
thing moving at, you know, 500 knots
underwater, that's something this guy
talked about.
He said these things would move
underwater like crazy, he said when
approached,
uh, they would they would be evasive and
they would just take like leave.
Mhm.
Um, if cornered, it didn't end well.
Mhm. like you'd get vaporized.
He's like, "It would [__] on anything
electronic in the vicinity."
He's like, "We've tried to um we've sent
nukes after it like on submarines. We've
sent jets. We've scrambled like boats.
Like none of them come back. Um if the
intent is, you know, um any anything
malicious, like you'll just get
decimated."
Um and he said, you know, the questions
were really interesting because like the
audience, like the people asking
question, it was like a Q&A. and they
would ask like um do they ever come from
space? And he's like no rarely. He's
like we'd rarely see anything come in
from orbit. Um these things mostly left
the water and like zoomed out to
wherever it it was going and would come
right back.
And that's why you also assume that
there was probably multiple of these
things because if we're seeing them on
the east coast, this one was situated in
the Bahamas,
that sort of Bermuda Triangle area
which also
hot spot,
right?
Yeah. and their weapons training
facilities where there like underwater
cables that people don't know where
they're going. It's called, you know,
Ach is this spot at
Would make sense.
Yeah.
And it would make sense that it's
mobile, too.
Oh, totally.
Um and so the these ships would often
come back and so they're thinking like
this guy thought he was kind of putting
together while he was he's like, "Oh,
yeah." He's like, "It kind of does make
sense that he was never told about more
of them, but he's like it wouldn't make
sense that there are more because if
people seeing them on the East Coast,
they probably have something on the East
Coast or up in the Atlantic or in the
Indian Ocean." What about Trump's speech
where he says, you know, talking about
the Jersey drones, he said, "These are
coming out of the water. We know where
the garage is." Or he didn't say they're
coming out of the water. He says, "This
it's very strange. We know where the
garage is. We go into the garage if we
wanted." And then you have the sheriff
reporting that they were coming out of
the water.
And what a perfect place to hide.
Yep.
On the ocean, you know, on the ocean
floor. Also the office of naval
intelligence is uh what created you know
that wrote up these reports. Tim Galedet
talks a lot about you know some
interesting usos you know identified
submersible objects.
Yep.
There's an interesting book by a guy
named John Pina Craraven where he talks
about uh underwater uh tech retrievals
of secret technology made by submarines
and there all these lost submarines like
the USS Connecticut where it's like we
don't really know what happened. M
feels like most of the details are still
classified,
right?
Um so
yeah, look, if
and then and then he talks about the
shape of the crafts
that are being expulsed from this like
this mother ship, this mobile
construction unit
and how
they didn't have any features. A lot of
them were like the spherical ones. He's
like are like drones. They're not manned
at all.
Um and those are like more for scanning.
And he would go like if you see an
orange light, it's they're scanning for
minerals or biologics. And if if the
orange light comes up to you, there's a
likelihood that you've you're going to
be abducted or you've been abducted.
Um, you know, and they had all he had
all these like different codes and these
different like you get really into
detail about like what they think
and um what he thinks they're here for.
And
yeah, go for it. Yeah.
Yeah. I was going to say that for me was
the most interesting. It's like, okay,
well, what's the why? And he said the
higherups seem to think one of two
things. He's like, they first of all,
they're pretty much all in agreement
that they just don't care about us.
Like, they just don't care. They don't
care. It's more like a zoo where they're
not going to be bothered by the
day-to-day of the animals in the zoo,
but if one of them breaks loose or like,
you know, starts using something to like
harm the zookeepers or anything else,
like they they just have to keep it in
check, but they don't care what happens
in the enclosure. Like, you guys do
whatever you want. We don't care. So
it's more like that is their attitude
towards it and they said that could be
one of two reasons. either one, they're
kind of waiting for us to, you know, hit
this higher, you know, ascension,
whatever, and then and we become
enlightened, or two,
they're kind of here
until something else gets here and
keeping this place around
until whoever owns the planet comes to
pick it up, which I thought was like a
darker
weirder weirder theory,
dude. There just like kind of
maintenance.
Yeah. Yeah. kind of like these pods that
are placed on all the planet as like it
seems like an AI
Mhm.
security system.
Yeah.
And that even the biologics
And you look at tons of accounts of
these grays cuz that's what he said.
They were these grays um seem to be
these biological drones.
Yeah.
And so part of the AI system being, you
know,
I think that's why David Grush uses the
term biologics. It's aptly vague.
Yeah. Yeah, they're like almost
soulless.
They are. And it seems like they just
kind of do execute these sort of
low-level tasks or whatever. And often
they're around preservation. So, it's
like genetic sampling or gameamt
collection or whatever.
And it makes sense you'd send your like
AI homeostasis global, you know,
maintenance kit right out. You wouldn't
like send your and answers all the like
honestly dumb first order questions of
like why do they crash and what but they
would just they get seen but they don't
care they don't give a [__] Yeah, they
don't. If you go to like the zoo and
you're you know you're you're uh you
know looking at silverback gorillas in
Arwanda or whatever. Do you care if you
get seen? Like
you probably probably on some level like
you're wearing camo so like it it would
be ephemeral from their perspective but
they also would like occasionally see
you.
We dress up like pandas.
Yeah, we dress Yeah. Right. to go into
the panda enclosure. Panda's like a
weird looking panda.
Yeah. Yeah.
Not quite a panda. Kind of looks like us
and it's feeding us and it's studying
us. Weird, you know.
So, it's like the gray thing where it's
like, yeah, we like did our best, but
like whatever, you know? You just got to
like execute the task.
Correct.
Yeah. That seems to be what it is like
this, like you said, like this
maintenance sort of um Yeah. sort of.
And they're so much more powerful that
it doesn't really m like if one of them
goes down, it's like you lost your
dispensable thing like whatever, you
They don't like it. I think I think
they're like gh that sucks. But I don't
think it's really the end of the world
to them. They're just kind of like doing
their job again. And like if you were
some like intergalactic billionaire,
let's say that like megalomaniac that
wanted to like seed life across the
universe, let's say Elon Musk in the
year
2 million. Yeah.
Right. Like you would have resources
across the universe doing things like
this. You wouldn't yourself go
see what's going on. And there's
something really disturbing about that
to me. And it's kind of like what
disturbed me with like Fire in the Sky,
the first movie I've ever seen about
aliens when I was like nine years old.
Not a movie you should watch when you're
nine, by the way. Do not show your kids
Fire in the Sky. But, you know, the the
the most disturbing thing to me was that
they wouldn't allow us to know
what was going on. They wouldn't they
wouldn't they wouldn't share their
culture with us. They weren't we weren't
allowed to know.
So, this is Travis Walton.
Yeah.
He's in Arizona.
Yeah. He gets abducted. Yeah. National
Park, right?
Yeah. But in the movie, they played it
out so so differently. But these beings
that were sort of uh performing this
procedure on him, ignored his screams,
didn't care about any any of his
well-being and just did the tasks and
sort of perhaps communicated among
themselves and like but they wouldn't
allow us to see or hear or understand
what they're doing.
Yeah. And that really frightened me
where I was like, how dare you like not
tell us what you're up to, you know, if
you're going to do this to us. Like
there's something really that didn't sit
well with me.
Is that part of your mission now to
figure out what they're up to? Cuz I
feel like a lot of your
the uh vector along which you are making
progress is like what do they want?
What's the what's the sort of culture on
the other side of the kind of non-human
intelligence? How do they think of us?
Yeah, that's and and it might be a
multifaceted answer that I'm not ready
for, but I do believe that like I I'm
super curious about that stuff. And when
I and when I think of these um like
these aliens right now that we're
encountering and if this is the case
that this is all they're all just like
these grays are just a part of this
maintenance system that was like placed
throughout the universe.
You know, to think that like some of us
might accidentally
through some happen stance or encounter
chance or whatever be quote unquote
lucky or unlucky enough to meet the
worker be.
That's it. That's as far as that goes.
Not meeting the next one or the next one
or the we some of us may by chance
through accident get to meet the lowest
form. Yeah. of their like they don't
like kind of this robotic whatever and
we're like
oh my it's God.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Do you know what I mean? And it's just
like the worker be.
Can can I flip the frame a bit on your
frustration because like
you think of all the people who are
traumatized just by meeting the worker
be that maybe it's pretty adaptive. Like
think about all of you know you need to
get often these people get sort of
hypnotic regressions and then they go
through you know sometimes therapy and
like it's it's analogous to experiencing
any other traumatic experience. If you
were mugged and beat up ruthlessly on
the street, it would be similar sort of
shards compartmentalization sort of, you
know, um, repressed aspects of, it's
very similar.
And so from a cognitive psychology
perspective and so if you are the
ultimate being, maybe you're you're way
like think about the movie arrival,
right? Like the like seephalopods or
whatever, like if you actually
experience that in real life, I think a
high percentage of people would go
insane.
I do.
Yeah. But also, it kind of like I do
think it supports the idea that they
just don't care because if they did,
they wouldn't make these things look so
freaking ugly, dude.
Right.
Right. They'd make them a little more
appealing.
Right.
Or or or familiar at least.
Or maybe that's their attempt to making
them familiar. So, imagine how ugly.
Well, that's what I'm saying. [laughter]
I don't I'm not I'm not
They're like, "Oh, we made similar
humans." You're like, "What is this
little gray dude?" They're like, "It's a
human." You're like, "That's not a
human."
Yeah. And for all we know like they're
just good enough to like complete the
objective of like doing whatever they
need and like
bipedal
they haven't like made the the upgrade
or whatever
or they don't care
or they don't care. So and then yeah so
if if that is the case then maybe they
are sort of protecting us from like
the fact that 99% of us you know if you
look at uh Diana Pulka's description of
St. Princess of Aisi encountering the
the the Saraphim or whatever. Like any
of these things,
I think it would drive most people a
little nuts, horrific. And you know, he
has what she would now say is probably
like, you know, electromagnetic, you
know, radiation or whatever. And like he
but then the story that like never ends
up getting told around this is like he
dies from it a year later.
And so in some ways, maybe you need to
just see the worker be like maybe the
worker be is like, you know, that that
drives you crazy enough. Like I I don't
know very many people who'd want to see
a gray in their bedroom. Like that
that's not something I want to see ever.
Yeah. No, for sure. And but I also
wonder like
like all we're seeing is their
scientists really or not even we're just
seeing like like the the the arms of
their scientists. Like we're not even
seeing we're not meeting their poets.
The lab interns.
Yeah. Exactly. We're not meeting their
musicians. Yeah. If they if they have if
they know what music is.
We're we get to see their scientists.
Well, what a shitty first encounter. I
don't want to send my scientists,
Earth scientists, to be the first people
to meet Yeah.
a new civil civilization. Could you
imagine? Could you imagine getting like
scientists, putting them on like a UFO,
sending them to another planet, being
like, "You guys are the ones that are
going to establish first contact." And
they're like socially awkward, uh, a
little weird. They're like nervous and
like they don't really know how to
interact and how to like use the right
words in a social situation. Like, I
wouldn't like that. I would probably
send over someone with more charisma,
with maybe a philosopher, maybe someone,
you know what I mean? So why send us the
scientists?
Well, maybe
because they don't care.
Either they don't care or Allah, the
prime directive in Star Trek, they are
waiting for us to reach some sort of
consciousness lness test. And once we've
reached that threshold, we are worthy
of, you know, real interaction.
Yeah, that would makes that would make
sense, too. And I hope that that's the
case. I hope that it's this is just some
type of like safeguard that's here to
make sure we don't destroy ourselves
because I think we do need that. And um
you know I've always I've always been in
the
I do too.
Yeah.
I think if you actually viewed um us
having a multipolar nuclear world
through like a pure game theory
probability lens
like I think the world may have already
ended
you know like I I I don't
multiple times like and then I think if
not it's probably going to end soon. If
you just think we live in the a world
without this other stuff.
Yeah.
We wouldn't make it.
No, we wouldn't. There's no way. I mean,
there's no way. Do I mean, do you see
like
I don't see us like dearming or
deescalating on the nuclear. So, like
and and then it's like arguably we're in
a worse situation than the the Cold War
now. Mhm.
Um cuz it's it's it's it's more
confusing visav you know um Russia and
China
and the UAP stuff
the advanced technology and you know
Yeah. And well, also just the weaponry
that like everybody's like, you know,
it's all like AI and warfare or
whatever. And like,
you know, like that's like a cold hard
algorithm that then has to make the
decision. And then there has to be some
sort of human in the loop. But like the
human is becoming paricetized and like
demoted in that loop as far as the
decision-m goes. And they have to be
from a game theory lens. If like the
adversary is using the AI thing, then
you have to use the AI thing. And so it
doesn't feel like things are getting
like more likely that we ascend through
the the great filter and make it on the
other side. If the great filter though
is more consciousness-based, that I
think gives us a little more hope from
like a materialist
lens. Yeah. I don't think we should be
exploring other planets right now.
[laughter]
She's totally
Yeah. we should be focusing on this. The
fact that we have a Goldilocks planet
that's extremely you know you have the
anthropic principle in physics like we
are
we're so lucky like if plank's constant
were like slightly deviated like we we
know we wouldn't have a habitable earth
if if hydrogen and oxygen didn't form
these perfect crystal lattice
structures. Uh the more solid form of of
water which is ice would be more dense
and it' sink below and the earth would
flood over. Like there are a million
examples like that. And what a cry for
help to want to live on such a shitty
planet like Mars.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Where it's just gross.
There's nothing good there.
Yeah.
You know, I don't I don't see the I
don't see the allure
if we can't
when we have fjords and we have like,
you know, vast valleys of like beautiful
life and we're and we'd rather see
ourselves living in some weird, you
know, artificial hut. That's a cry for
help.
Yeah. on a on a red baron de oxygenated
planet
radiated and we have like storms we have
like interlockan in Switzerland and like
and like shangry you have like you know
like Tibet here and it's a cry for help
but we got we got we have to go to Mars
cuz we're going to save humanity if we
go to if we just go to Mars we're good
it's uh yeah no totally it feels like a
you know like a cynical uh almost like a
distraction where it's like if you if
you focus all your efforts towards
something that's maybe sisophian but
directs all of your attention and energy
source something that's it's nominally
charismatic
okay
then you forget about you know how how
bad things are here or something I don't
know I don't know what it is but if you
actually think about it it's not it's
completely illogical
and I yeah that's it and that's why like
I struggle a lot when I hear about these
cases where uh these abductees get like
there there's a pattern with abductees
uh you get taken out of your room or out
of your head or whatever it is. You get
brought in um they perform some type of
examination or some type of um
operation, whatever it is. Then they
give you a tour of the ship.
Then they send you imagery of the world
completely being annihilated, these
terrible, terrible images, and make you
feel bad
for what we're doing to the world. And
then they put you back home. Yeah,
that is the protocol it seems like for
for what they're doing. That's like,
okay, we got to do this, then we leave
them with this, and then that's like the
protocol that they've
been that's the directive that they're
following
to like cuz maybe they're not in
control. They're just like they're doing
the thing. They're like, okay, now we
got to give them the images and now we
got to and give them the tour. Okay, the
tour number and put them back in their
bed. Everything should be good. And they
found that like there's been no
resistance there and like, okay, this is
working. And they haven't really tweaked
it. And so when that happens, I'm always
like I'm always so skeptical because
it's like, you know, you go to you go to
Zimbabwe and and and you hit these kids,
these children, with these images of
like technology is bad and we're blowing
up the earth and like we're killing
we're and we're like it's just the worst
imagery ever and this is all your fault
humans and like we're we're crying and
we're so introspective and like we got
to change and like
nothing happens.
Nothing freaking changes ever. Ever.
Like
if you're such an intelligent being,
then you probably have the foresight to
understand that we're not going to do
like we're not going to do anything to
change this world on our own that we
wouldn't have already done.
Yeah.
If anything, it's it, you know, it's
it's it's not getting that much better.
We're, you know, we're we're we're
killing more trees and we're polluting
the oceans more than ever. And it's like
it's not
that isn't helping.
Yeah. You have to know that being a
smart superior, you know, entity, you
have to know that telling us that we're
being bad,
doesn't help us with a solution. There
needs to be intervention.
There's a great book called The Inner
Game of Tennis and it's all about like
if you like criticize a person over and
over again for like making mistakes, it
doesn't help them get better at tennis
at all.
Yeah.
You like just let them let them go. And
like it's almost like this like how to
coach without coaching at all. Sure.
And um I'm skeptical as well. I think
it's so Yeah, it's so easy. I mean, a
lot of these things sort of echo this
like Greta Van Thunberg, you know, like
sort of like
these solutions that are overly
technocratic where it's a it is a
hypnotic trick
and and and look at the track record for
those people. The the all you're doing
is end you're just going to end up
creating people who are going to write a
book and speak at UFO conventions.
Totally. You're not creating like the
next president or or creating like a
world leader that's going to change
anything. It's never that.
It's never that.
It's always
utter trauma.
All [laughter] all all
utopian movements end in uh complete
failure. And like there's a there's a
there's a good book called Passport to
Utopia, not to be confused with Passport
to Meonia.
And it's all of these like utopian
movements. And you think think about
like the 20th century is the age of
ideology. like this was like Hitler and
Stalin and and Troskyism all these
things where it's like it's too simple
Marxism it's all too simple it's like if
you just do these sort of technocratic
things
um you know then then we're good we'll
figure it out you know it's all good
and um empirically all of those always
fail and in fact
if you look at their underlying roots
they're sort of maybe
they're cultlike and hyper Christian in
a way like They're actually like the
more uh uh sort of religious than than
you realize.
And and so then you have to ask yourself
why.
Yep.
So why are we being shown these things?
I think Yeah. I think you have to be
skeptical.
So then Yeah.
Probably to manage us or something.
Yeah. Or or to justify what they're
doing to us.
Yep. you know, if you're being um
operated on or or being, you know,
things being shoved up your nostril and
and whatnot, like all these horrific
things. It's trauma and then you're like
internally frustrated, afraid, fearful,
resentful, spiteful to these beings and
then they, you know, they implant these
emotions in your mind and say, "No,
you're the bad guy."
Yeah.
Look what look what you're doing. and
you start crying because you're like,
"Oh, what are we doing?" And they go,
"We're helping you."
It's like, it's this negging process.
It's probably like Charles Manson did to
the family.
Yeah. We're helping. We're here to help
you. And we're like, and now we're
thankful to them for doing these
procedures. And and I'm not saying that
that is the thing. I'm saying that this
is what it looks like to me after just
reading a lot of these cases where
you know I I use this example a lot but
yeah if like you know my coffee cup
started talking to me grew a mouth right
now and two eyes and was like hey the
earth is flat
actually you know I would be inclined to
believe it and I know that sounds absurd
at first I checked myself into a
hospital but then once you know I
confirmed that this is reality it it's
basically it's basically telling me that
on some level at least partially that my
reality is a lie and it has shown me
that so it has given me more truth.
Yeah.
And so I would be inclined to believe
it.
And so if I was some type of light
coming down from the sky and I spoke to
you in your mind Yeah.
and told you that I was God.
Yeah.
There is no reason you would believe it.
In fact, not believe it.
Not believe it. In fact, if you spoke
against that light, they would kill you.
Yeah.
That's the reality of the situation is
that anyone who gets a message from
these NHI has no reason to doubt the
message.
Yeah.
Because it's showing you something true.
And so therefore, you automatically just
believe it.
The rest of it has to
of course. Yeah. And and there's no
reason. And I I'm saying that if I had
an interaction where they spoke into my
head and told me some information,
I would be I would be convinced that
it's the truth, too. I'm not saying I'm
immune to that. Like
Yeah. Well, you have a great example of
Christopher Columbus. You want to tell
that story?
Yeah. He was um uh this was I think in
the Bahamas. Um but he showed up with
his boat and there was like the was it
the Bahamas? It was an island
Indies. Yeah, one of those. And there
was there was the native people that
were there and his whole crew had been
starving and they were thirsty and they
wanted, you know, they were dying of
like all all these terrible things. And
so they had asked the locals to provide
them with food and water and the locals
refused. And so they were trying to come
up with a plan on how to how to get them
to like feed, you know, the crew. And
so, you know, Chris Columbus had said,
"If you do not do what we ask, we will
block out your son in 3 days time. You
have 3 days."
Mhm.
And so, 3 days later, sure enough, there
was a solar eclipse. And so, him knowing
that there was a solar eclipse
happening, you know, use that against
the people as like kind of like a scop
or whatever to, you know, feed his feed
his crew. And they did that. So again,
yeah, I mean
Arthur C. Clark, any sufficiently
advanced technology is indistinguishable
from magic. Y,
you know, and so when you can present
that, we have no reason not to believe
that. Y,
you know, so anybody who is above our
level of intelligence
sufficiently enough can claim to be God.
Yeah.
And probably does.
Yeah. It's so fascinating. So given that
and given I think that very healthy
orientation towards this entire subject
what you know from your year and a half
of doing the show and I'm sure much you
know longer than that of being sort of
interested in this topic.
How do you uh orient towards it? Like
what's what's the prop because there's
something around a lot of these you know
experiencers where sometimes it feels
like they're outsourcing their agency or
it's like you know often it's just like
everything they told me is is is true.
Mhm.
Um
other times they feel sort of
antagonized and like they they just want
to be totally rid of it and like they
don't
take any of it, you know, like like like
worthy of, you know, consideration. They
they literally just want to like run
away like compartmentalize or whatever.
Is there some like healthy middle ground
or like how how should one orient you
know themselves towards the subject?
Uh it's difficult to say because I'm not
like I'm not someone who has been
abducted, right? So I can't tell those
people how to feel
obviously. um they're you know they're
going through it. So uh and I've not you
know been a part of military projects
where I I know of legacy stuff you know
so I the perspective that I have comes
uniquely from my own you know personal
experience but I tend to focus on story.
I love story. I think story is the most
beautiful thing that we can share. I
think, you know, there's a reason we had
bards back in the day because they had
an important role. They had they had to
tell you story and I am fascinated by
story. So when I look at these things, I
try to look at it through a lens of
story. And by story, I mean like there's
an arc and there's a reason and there's
a purpose and there's there's beauty and
there's an artistic sort of natural
flow, you know, in this. And so I I tend
to look at it as story. And all these
new components and these new cases and
these new pieces of information are
padding this universe building just much
like you would uh if you were building
Star Wars or if you were, you know,
building uh Interstellar. You need these
universe building
blocks to keep you enclosed in this
fictional bubble. And so I'm not saying
it's fiction, but I treat it as such
until it's proven otherwise. And I think
for me that sustains my uh creativity,
my creative thinking, and my interest
into the topic. Um if I were to look at
this practically, constantly in a
skeptical manner, I think I would burn
myself out and I probably would get a
little cynical.
And so I I try.
That's what I'm feeling. totally
[laughter]
burned out and cynical on all this
stuff.
Yeah. So, looking at it from like this
beautiful storytelling lens
with these storytelling elements and
then integrating that into the content
that I make and creating these whimsical
worlds to take people out for a spin.
I think there's no harm in that. And I
also think that, you know, the medium is
the message to some extent where like if
I can help, you know, if I can help tell
a story, like like if you can't be
better than everyone, be different
type deal. So, you know, for me, I I I
look at my role in all of this as
someone who perhaps my lack of knowledge
and experience can be made up for with
my ability to tell story.
I think you have a lot of knowledge,
too. Thank you for saying that. But
definitely a lot less than, you know,
than yourself or like Gerb or like any
of the No, absolutely. Um, but I I
admire that.
But I think what I make up for is is
this other this other uh sort of
dimensionality. And in this space, you
know, I often talk about entertainment
as being like a good thing for euphology
and some people believe the opposite.
They say it ruins it.
Yeah. But it it's tough, man, because
the second you say it ruins it,
you can't really decouple story from all
of this,
right? Exactly. So, what's real?
Yeah. What is Yeah. Yeah. It's It's just
It's extremely hard with It goes back to
the thing of like how do you know an
electron exists? It's cuz it's like
textbooks and it's been measured by
people. By the way, for the record, I do
believe electrons exist, [laughter] but
I'm taking it on faith. And then you
have all these other stories and it's
like it's it extremely it comes down to
your kind of political biases and your
instincts and like you know you can you
can lie and say that it's not but it's
like
the basis of belief. Um Jake Barber said
this in my interview with him is like
people don't really understand the basis
of their beliefs.
I think that's that's definitely true.
Um
I also think that you know relating it
back to magic um there is something
about the willing suspension of
disbelief
uh that enhances your experience and
maybe your human experience here.
Yeah. Yeah.
So I think if you're able to have enough
cognitive,
you know,
pliability.
Exactly. To be able to successfully
temporarily at least suspend your
disbelief to a few of these stories. I
think it will enhance your experience on
Earth. It may not make it may not give
you the definitive answers.
Yeah.
But it will make the pursuit of those
answers more joyful and meaningful.
Yeah. Yeah. And I think that that's
really important in this in this subject
because if you're constantly just
cynical or non-believing or or even the
other way just too believing and like
get critical of other people saying what
you're saying isn't real, I think you're
missing out on like a whole world of
discovery and beauty and whimsy that I
think is really important. And I think
that when you put yourself in that mind
state, you tend to absorb more
information. So, you know, I could I
could, you know, spit facts at you all
day, but by creating an environment
that's more conducive to you wanting to
be immersed there, you're going to
absorb that information a lot more. You
know, we learn more things when we enjoy
doing them.
Absolutely.
And and rather than going to school for
something, just getting out there and
doing it because you're passionate about
it, you're going to learn more there.
Absolutely.
You know, so it's kind of the same. I
treat it kind of in the same way. Let's
have fun doing this. Yeah,
that doesn't mean that doesn't mean you
know we have to believe everything.
The energy with which the content is
transmitted is uh you can't decouple
that from the content itself and people
can say you could decouple it but I do
think that's how ideas take hold. It's
not necessarily only the cont like we
like to think that we are perfect
measurement sensors of truth uh in some
abstract sense and we take away like the
energy surrounding it or the the medium
or you know whatever and it goes into
some like code compiler and that's just
so not how we you know process anything.
Yeah, of course. Watch a movie without a
soundtrack and it won't be the same
movie. It's the same script.
No, it'll seem so much lamer and
Yeah, it'll seem weird and empty and you
won't retain most of it. You'll probably
fall asleep. But like the soundtrack all
of a sudden now immerses you and it
gives you a reason to care and puts you
there and makes you feel like you're a
part of it and because of that you're
retaining the information as if you're
the one actually experiencing it.
Yes.
Rather than hearing someone else's
experience, you know, and that's a
really important thing when you know uh
when learning something. I think we
learn things for the purpose of
survival. And it's it's the reason why
we're interested in a lot of drama. You
know, you think about drama. Why do
people like drama? Why do people like
drama? Because people like putting
themselves in other people's position so
they might be able to uh through this
connection learn a lesson that they
might not otherwise learn, right? So
they're they're feeling it out. So what
would I have done? You know, and now
they don't have to actually do that
terrible thing. It's why we watch these
murder docks and these like serial
killers. Why do we why are we obsessed?
Because we like to put ourselves in
those shoes. As sick as that sounds, we
like to like just imagine it. It's like
being a roller coaster, being close to
death without dying and and learning
from that. I think it's why these
characters like, you know, Elon or Trump
or even like Kanye right now is like
saying everything you're not allowed.
Like I'm, you know, I'm Jewish, so I'm
nominally I'm supposed to be like, "This
guy sucks or whatever." Even though, you
know, love his early music. Um,
but like there's something weirdly like
it's hard to look away while he's like
self-imploding online. Yeah. Um, and
it's something like, you know, we all
walk around as, you know, it's like the
Rouso's noble savage or whatever where
it's like we have to repress constantly.
Everybody represses. You know, Freud
would say this, every everybody repress.
And maybe Freud's specific idiosyncratic
repressions were based on his own weird
autobiography, but like, you know, often
it's it's we just do. And then you see
somebody and they're so not they're just
so like unconstrained. They're just so
weird. They're like these uber menchy,
you know, figures or whatever. And you
know, again,
it's a funny term.
Yeah. Yeah. Especially in this context
[laughter] of Kanye, not endorsing
anything he's saying, but there's some
weird like voyeristic like I I can't not
see that like like and and this bizarre
desire to like, you know, live
vicariously through that for a lot of
people. I think I would assume cuz like
of the amount of traction he gets online
to this day.
Yeah. You want to you want to learn a
lesson without having to learn the
lesson because that helps you survive.
It helps you grow as a person.
That's interesting.
And so, you know, living through other
people's experiences adds to our own
data
of of, you know, what being here is
collectively. We're kind of helping each
other do that now with story.
Yeah.
You know, and so if you can create
really immersive stories, then you can
help be that conduit for someone else to
learn a lesson or to grow a little bit
more in their own knowledge versus just
having them read text or, you know,
saying something monotonously. you can
you can create an environment where
they're more conducive to learn
something new.
I love that, man. And it's so beautiful.
I mean, it it really does speak to like
why do certain ideas die on the vine and
what why do others take hold? We think
of, you know, ideas that make it into
the modern zeitgeist, whether it's in
science, politics, you know, uh,
curriculum in school as being this like,
oh, this this reached some like
truthiness threshold. So, like it's now
in the textbook, it's now in the canon
or whatever. And in fact, it's like
history's told by the winners and like
the winners like know how to tell their
story extremely charismatically.
Yeah.
And so, uh, yeah, it's a it's just a
fascinating kind of new frame through
which to And I think your, uh, show
itself embodies this like just
beautiful. I mean, you're like, you
know, your your your set is like
amazing. You know, you have like this
skiff, uh, that looks like this sort of
mid-century, you know, really cool kind
of space age thing with like all these
knobs and toggles. your like wide shot
is literally this overhead security
camera and then you're wearing like the
suspenders. You're like this like
detective or whatever and it's this
beautiful it's like two things. It like
you're like in it and you're like wow
this is real but then also you can kind
of cover like really crazy stuff because
you kind of have an out where you're
like yeah I'm just wearing suspenders
and I'm sitting in this fake skiff, you
know, whatever. Yeah. And so it's both
kind of, you know, plausible deniability
for you and it's also like the most
immersive, beautiful experience for the
viewer and uh yeah, I'm just I see that
like, you know, going going to the moon
as far as growth.
I appreciate you saying that. Thank you.
And thank you for taking notice. But
yeah, just taking you out for a spin.
That's the idea.
Yeah, absolutely. Well, Chris, this is
an honor, man. Um, everybody go
subscribe to Area 52. uh become a member
on YouTube.
Uh go to the Discord. You have really
cool thoughtful uh you have the interns
on Discord and uh you guys do kind of
reading groups together. Sometimes you
have movie nights.
Um so it's a a step-wise better
experience in my opinion like than other
just random kind of uh communities that
don't really get thought about, you
know, it's just kind of like a way to
monetize. Not the case with you.
Um you have a Patreon as well, right?
Yeah, it's all it's all linked together.
So Patreon and membership are the same
thing kind They allow you uh all the top
secret access to the secret section of
the discord and all that stuff and all
the cool stuff. But you know,
essentially you could just join uh the
discord for free if you just want to
find like like a community. Uh we keep a
positive vibe there and an open mind. Um
you know we we try to really keep it
friendly uh without having you know too
many politics involved like we're just
there to share story and to like what
if.
Awesome man. Well maybe the whole world
is a stage. We're just in it. Uh Chris,
this is this is an honor, man. It was so
fun. And uh uh yeah, I was I'm still
trying to figure out how you I think I
think maybe at least with my code. Yeah.
That you uh
shoulder surfed you or something.
Yeah. Well, you know, I think you fit
you felt the impacts of what cuz I I
clicked I clicked that in, right? Or
maybe something around that. I don't
know. [laughter]
[gasps] You guys go figure it out.
Awesome, man.
Hey, dude.
Appreciate it. Before we go, just a
reminder that this episode was sponsored
by
Surf Shark. Don't miss out on the extra
four months
at surfshark.com/ameanalchemy.
The link is right below in the
description.
Stay curious, stay safe, and I'll see
you next time on American Alchemy.
Dude, this isn't your show. They're
going to see me, not you.
Stay tuned, stay curious, stay safe, and
you'll see him next time on American
Alchemy.
Thanks.